2018IMPACT REPORTCertain statements in this report, 
including statements regarding 
future development plans, are 
forward-looking statements that are 
subject to risks and uncertainties. 
These forward-looking statements 
are based on management’s current 
expectations. Various important 
factors could cause actual results
to di ffer materially, including the 
risks identiﬁed in our U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission ﬁlings . 
Tesla disclaims any obligation
to update any forward-looking 
statement contained in this report. 
02TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION
MISSION03
04
04 / EMPLOYEES AND CULTURE
 BECOMING THE SAFEST CAR FACTORY IN THE WORLD
 T H E  S A F E S T  C A R S  F O R  C U S T O M E R S  A N D  E M P L O Y E E S
 R E W A R D I N G  T H E  I N D I V I D U A L
 D I V E R S I T Y  A N D  I N C L U S I O N
 E M P L O Y E E  M O B I L I T Y  A N D  T R A N S P O R T A T I O N  P R O G R A M S
 E D U C A T I O N
 C O R P O R A T E  G O V E R N A N C E
 D R I V E N  B Y  S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y3503 / SUPPLY CHAIN
 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
 C O B A L T
 C O N F L I C T  M I N E R A L S
 S U P P L I E R  D I V E R S I T Y3102 / OPERATIONAL IMPACT
 G R E E N H O U S E  G A S  I N V E N T O R Y
 E N E R G Y  E F F I C I E N C Y
 S U S T A I N A B L E  E N E R G Y
 F A C T O R Y  P R O F I L E S  A N D  G R I D  M I X E S
 S U P E R C H A R G E R S
 C A S E  S T U D Y :  F R E M O N T  F A C T O R Y
 C A S E  S T U D Y :  G I G A F A C T O R Y  1  1501 / PRODUCT IMPACT
 E N V I R O N M E N T A L  I M P A C T
 R E S I L I E N C E  O F  T H E  G R I D
 A C C E S S  T O  S U S T A I N A B L E  E N E R G Y
 B U I L D I N G  T H E  S A F E S T  C A R S  F R O M  T H E  G R O U N D  U P06
03INTRODUCTION
IMPACT REPORTTesla was founded in 2003 by a group of engineers who wanted to 
prove that people didn’t need to compromise to drive electric – that 
electric vehicles could be better, quicker and more fun to drive than 
gasoline cars. Today, we build not only all-electric vehicles but also 
inﬁnitely scalable clean energy generation and storage products. 
We believe the faster the world stops relying on fossil fuels and moves 
towards a zero-emissions future, the better. Tesla’s products o ffer a 
complete solution – sustainable generation, storage and usage – all 
capable of being powered by the sun. We envision a world powered by 
solar energy, running on batteries and transported by all-electric cars.
By design, Tesla’s products are sustainable, and we’re working hard
to build them in a sustainable way too. We’re publishing our very ﬁrst 
Impact Report measuring the impacts of our products and operations 
on the environment and our communities. We recognize there’s still 
much to be done.
As we grow and prove to the world that a business rooted in
sustainability can also be successful, we will continue to improve
our processes and report on our progress in future Impact Reports.
THE TESLA TEAM04MISSION Tesla’s mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy. 
Climate change is reaching alarming levels – in large part due to
emissions from burning fossil fuels for transportation and electricity 
generation. In 2016, carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration levels
permanently exceeded the 400 parts per million threshold, a level
that many climate scientists believe will have a catastrophic impact
on the environment. Worse, global CO2 emissions are increasing at an 
accelerating rate. Annual CO2 emissions have approximately doubled 
over the past 50 years to over 35 gigatons per year. The path that the 
world currently is on is unsustainable and unwise.
The world cannot reduce CO2 emissions without addressing energy 
generation and consumption. And the world cannot address its energy 
habits without directly reducing emissions in the transportation and 
power sectors. This issue is Tesla’s entire reason for existing. We are 
focused on creating a complete power and transportation ecosystem 
from solar generation and energy storage to all-electric vehicles. 
The ﬁrst step in our Master Plan  was to build an all-electric sports car
(the Tesla Roadster) to prove that people didn’t need to compromise 
performance, speed or comfort to drive all-electric. From there, we 
designed the world’s ﬁrst-ever premium all-electric sedan from the 
ground up, Model S , our Model X  SUV, and an a ffordable vehicle for
the mass market, Model 3 . As part of Master Plan, Part Deux , we
introduced Tesla Semi , an all-electric truck that delivers massive
savings in energy costs, performance, e fficiency and reliability.GLOBAL GREENHOUSE
GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
BY ECONOMIC SECTOR
Agriculture, Forestry
& Other Land Use24%
Industry21%
Other Energy10%Electricity &
Heat Production*25%
Buildings 6%Transportation * 14%Global GHG emissions are increasing
at an accelerating rate. Annual GHG 
emissions have approximately doubled 
over the past 50 years to over 35 
gigatons per year. Energy use through 
electricity and heat production (25%) 
and transportation (14%) together 
drive these GHG emissions.
*Tesla-related sectorsMISSION
05 IMPACT REPORTWe recognize that we cannot achieve our mission alone, so we decided
to open source Tesla patents , making them accessible  to anyone who 
wants to design and build electric vehicles. 
To create an entire sustainable energy ecosystem, Tesla also manufactures 
a unique set of energy products that enable homeowners, businesses and 
utilities to produce and manage renewable energy generation, storage 
and consumption. Homeowners can install solar panels  or Solar Roof  to 
power their home using 100% renewable energy and store that energy
in Powerwall , which makes electricity available during peak energy-use 
periods to help them save money  and provides power during grid outages.  
Meanwhile, utilities and businesses can use Powerpack  – an inﬁnitely 
scalable energy storage system that provides greater control, e fficiency 
and reliability across the electric grid. 
Renewable energy generation and storage are critical components of 
developing microgrids — an increasingly important means of delivering 
reliable and sustainable electricity around the world. As deployment of 
Tesla’s products continues to accelerate, we can scale the adoption of 
renewable energy, cost-e ffectively modernize our aging infrastructure 
(and become less reliant on it) and improve the resilience of the electric 
grid to beneﬁt everyone.
Combined with a 13 MW photovoltaic 
array, the 52 MWh Powerpack system
in Kaua’i stores solar energy captured 
during the day and feeds it to the grid to 
help reduce the amount of diesel power 
generation needed to meet the island’s 
electricity demand. This system is helping 
the Kaua’i Island Utility Cooperative meet 
its goal of using renewable resources
to generate at least half of the island’s 
electricity by the end of 2019.
01
PRODUCT IMPACT
06
07 IMPACT REPORT
 07The foundation of Tesla’s mission rests ﬁrst and foremost on our products.  
Our focus from the beginning has been to develop products that are not 
only sustainable, but superior to fossil-fuel alternatives, as many believe 
that choosing sustainable products requires consumers to compromise 
on price or performance. Tesla’s all-electric vehicles combine performance,
safety and e fficiency, making them the best cars in the world, while 
Tesla’s energy generation and storage products power both urban and 
remote communities with reliable, a ffordable energy.
Transportation and electricity production are two of the largest sources 
of GHG emissions, making up more than half of all U.S. emissions.
Tesla’s ecosystem (solar, batteries and vehicles) aims to reduce the 
environmental impacts of transportation, electricity production and 
energy use by people, homes, businesses and the grid.
In 2006, prior to the launch of the Tesla Roadster, there was no viable 
all-electric vehicle option on the market. Now, 12 years later, there are 
over 3M electric vehicles on the road globally, with more being produced 
every day. The auto industry is moving towards electriﬁcation, and 
governments around the world have recognized the harmful impact of 
internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle emissions and have started
to take concrete steps towards making the future more environmentally 
friendly and sustainable.Powerwall is a rechargeable lithium-ion 
battery that integrates with solar to 
store excess energy generated during 
the day and make electricity available 
when homeowners need it — for 
example, during grid outages and 
when the sun is not shining.ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT
IMPACT REPORTSUSTAINABLE AND
SUPERIOR PRODUCTS
FOR EVERYONE
08ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACTOver 550K Tesla vehicles have been sold, and they have driven over 
10B miles to date, resulting in a combined savings of over 4M metric
tons of CO2. This is the equivalent of saving emissions from being 
released into the environment from over 500K ICE vehicles with a
fuel economy of 22 miles per gallon (MPG). 
Tesla’s Supercharger network  — the fastest and most extensive 
charging network in the world — has delivered over 595 Gigawatt-
hours (GWhs) of energy, saving the equivalent of over 75M gallons of 
gasoline. That’s enough gasoline for the average ICE vehicle with
a fuel economy of 22 MPG to travel round trip from Los Angeles 
to New York City over 290K times. 
As of February 2019, Tesla Energy has installed over 3.5 Gigawatts of 
solar installations and has cumulatively generated over 13 Terawatt-
hours (TWhs) of 100% clean, emissions-free electricity. To put 13 TWhs 
in perspective, this amount of energy could supply the annual residential  
electricity consumption for the entire state of Connecticut. Over their 
entire expected use life of 35+ years, these solar installations are 
expected to generate 86.5 TWh of energy, which is enough electricity 
to power all of Washington D.C. for almost a decade.4,000,000+
Metric tons of CO2 saved
10,000,000,000+
Miles driven
Tesla vehicles sold550,000+
Tesla began delivering its ﬁrst mass-
market vehicle, Model 3, in July 2017. 
Like every Tesla, Model 3 combines 
range, performance, safety and 
technology — accelerating from
0-60 mph in a mere 3.2 seconds.ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT
The World Health Organization estimates greenhouse gases and harmful 
air pollutants, such as particulate matter, ozone, nitrogen dioxide and 
sulfur dioxide, cause over 7M premature deaths around the globe each 
year. Reducing the use of fossil fuels for transportation and electricity 
generation decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease, respiratory 
disease and stroke in both developed and undeveloped countries.
While many recognize the impact that power generation has on CO2 
emissions, power generation’s impact on water consumption is less 
appreciated. Power generation is one of the leading causes of water 
withdrawal in the U.S., as water for thermoelectric power is used in
generating electricity with steam-driven turbine generators and also
to cool the power-producing equipment. So every kilowatt-hour (kWh)
of clean solar energy produced not only lowers CO2 emissions, but also 
lowers water consumption.ALL-TIME TESLA ENERGY CONSUMPTION VS. GENERATION
MODEL S, X
AND 3 ENERGY
CONSUMPTION
TESLA
SOLAR ENERGY
GENERATION
TWh
8
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
10
9
11
125.26 TWh
13Telsa’s solar electricity generation has far exceeded the amount of energy the entire Tesla
vehicle ﬂeet on the road has consumed to date.
09 IMPACT REPORT13.25 TWhRESILIENCE
OF THE GRID
Tesla batteries combined with existing 
solar arrays on the island of Culebra in 
Puerto Rico provide clean energy for 
communities nearby.Solar and energy storage systems don’t just provide clean, zero-
emission energy, they also improve the reliability and resilience of
the electric grid. For example, in the event of an electric grid outage, 
energy storage systems can immediately provide power to homes, 
communities and businesses.
When Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico in September 2017, destroying  
thousands of homes and cutting electric grid power on the island,
the initial emergency response was focused on deploying diesel 
generators to provide temporary electricity. In addition to releasing 
harmful emissions and requiring constant refueling and maintenance, 
these generators were extremely loud and not designed to run for 
long periods, so many failed. In response, Tesla provided over 1K battery  
storage systems paired with solar panels to deliver reliable and
emissions-free electricity to over 660 locations throughout Puerto Rico, 
such as the Hospital del Niño Children’s Hospital in San Juan.
10In addition to providing back-up power during an electric grid outage, 
the combination of solar and energy storage systems provides
communities the ﬂexibility of using the solar power when needed. 
Battery energy storage systems also smooth out the variable peaks 
and valleys in electricity demand , thus reducing both peak demand 
costs and the operational costs for utilities of generating power
during peak periods. This solution is also offsetting the need to
overbuild infrastructure , such as peaker power plants — some of
the world’s dirtiest and least stable polluting energy generators —
to meet the highest demand hours of the year.
In December 2017, Tesla turned on the world’s largest lithium-ion 
battery in South Australia . A 50-year storm had damaged critical 
infrastructure in this region, causing a statewide blackout and leaving 
1.7M residents without electricity. As a result, the local government 
looked for a sustainable solution to ensure energy security for all 
residents, and Tesla, with the developer, Neoen, were selected to work 
on this project. Tesla provided a 100 MW / 129 MWh Powerpack system  
to be paired with Neoen’s Hornsdale Wind Farm near Jamestown and 
completed the project in less than 100 days . Just a few weeks after, 
when a major coal-ﬁred power plant failed, Tesla’s battery system
was activated in mere milliseconds to help stabilize the electric grid. 
This grid scale energy storage project is an example of a zero-emissions 
solution that is helping to reduce power outages and improving the 
reliability of South Australia’s electrical infrastructure.
Powerpacks in South Australia
charge using wind energy from the 
Hornsdale Wind Farm — providing
not only a sustainable solution to the 
region’s energy needs, but also
helping to solve power shortages,
reduce intermittencies and manage 
summer electricity peak load to
improve the infrastructure’s reliability.RESILIENCE
OF THE GRID
11 IMPACT REPORTACCESS TO
SUSTAINABLE
ENERGYMore than 1B people worldwide do not have access to electricity, and 
many that do get their electricity from polluting sources such as coal
or fossil fuels. Tesla is bringing sustainable and a ffordable energy 
solutions to communities around the world. On the island of Ta’u in  
American Samoa , Tesla created a microgrid consisting of over 5.3K 
solar panels and 60 Powerpack systems, which is capable of powering 
100% of the island on clean energy for 3 full days without sun. Today, 
instead of burning almost 110K gallons of diesel per year, paying for 
rising fuel and related transportation costs and having to face negative 
health impacts, nearly 900 residents of Ta’u beneﬁt from clean,
affordable and reliable energy year round.
3 days
of energy without the sun100%
coverage of the island1.4 MW
of solar generation
Ta’u Island in American Samoa used 
diesel generators as their main source
of power for many years, leaving the 
residents vulnerable to blackouts when 
diesel supplies were low. To solve this, 
Tesla paired solar with Powerpacks
to power homes, schools, the local
hospital and other facilities to deliver 
100% clean energy around the clock
to the entire community.
12The National Highway Tra ffic Safety
Administration awarded Model 3 a
5-star safety rating in every category
and sub- category, making it one of
the safest cars on the road.
FRONTAL CRASH 
ROLLOVERSIDE CRASH
OVERALL RATINGMODEL 3 SPOTLIGHTBUILDING THE
SAFEST CARS FROM
THE GROUND UPImproving occupant safety has always been key to our mission, 
because vehicle safety is essential to mass all-electric vehicle adoption . 
When we set out to build our ﬁrst full-sized vehicle, Model S, we 
positioned the battery pack and electric motors beneath the ﬂoor
of the vehicle to give it an extremely low center of gravity, greatly 
reducing the risk of rollover while enhancing handling and performance.  
Today, all Tesla vehicles feature this same battery placement. 
Another beneﬁt of Tesla vehicles is improved frontal impact safety
due to our vehicles’ front trunk. The entire front end of the vehicle 
becomes a superior crumple zone since there is no gasoline engine 
block. This design improves impact absorption in the event of a crash, 
and the area doubles as an extra storage space. Beneath our vehicles, 
the titanium underbody shield  consists of a ¼-inch ballistic grade 
aluminum armor plate that protects the battery pack.
Based on the advanced architecture of Model S and Model X, we 
engineered Model 3 to be the safest car built to date. In addition to
its near 50/50 weight distribution, Model 3 was also designed with
an extremely low polar moment of inertia, meaning its heaviest
components are located closer to the car’s center of gravity. Even 
though Model 3 has no engine, its performance is similar to a “mid-
engine car” due to its centered battery pack and the fact that Model 
3’s rear motor is placed slightly in front of the rear axle rather than 
behind it. Not only does this architecture add to the overall agility
and handling of the car, it also improves the capability of stability 
control by minimizing rotational kinetic energy. After testing Model 3 
as part of its New Car Assessment Program through a series of
crash tests used to calculate the likelihood of serious bodily injury
for front, side and rollover crashes, the National Highway Tra ffic
Safety Administration (NHTSA) awarded Model 3 a perfect 5-star 
safety rating in every category and sub-category .
13 IMPACT REPORTLOWEST
ROLLOVER RISKFRONT-IMPACT
PROTECTION
SIDE-IMPACT
PROTECTIONOur commitment to safety is why all Tesla vehicles built since October 
2016 come with a suite of external cameras, sensors and onboard 
computing that enable advanced safety features like Automatic 
Emergency Braking, Lane Departure Warning, Forward and Side 
Collision Warning, Obstacle-Aware Acceleration, blind spot warnings 
and more. These features are made possible by our Autopilot hardware  
and software system, which is an advanced driver assistance tool that 
provides an additional layer of safety that two eyes alone would not 
have and helps make highway driving more enjoyable. We believe that 
the unique combination of passive safety, active safety, and automated  
driving is crucial for keeping not just Tesla drivers and passengers 
safe, but all drivers on the road.
In Q1 2019 , we registered one accident for every 2.87M miles driven
in which drivers had Autopilot engaged. For those driving without 
Autopilot, we registered one accident for every 1.76M miles driven.
By comparison, NHTSA’s most recent data shows that in the United 
States there is an automobile crash every 436K miles.All new Tesla vehicles have the hardware 
needed for full self-driving capability at
a safety level substantially greater than 
that of a human driver. Eight surround 
cameras provide 360° visibility around 
the car, complemented by 12 ultrasonic 
sensors. A 250-meter forward-facing 
radar with enhanced processing provides 
additional data about the car’s
surroundings on a redundant wavelength 
that is able to see through heavy rain, 
fog, dust and even the car ahead.BUILDING THE
SAFEST CARS FROM
THE GROUND UP
14
02
OPERATIONAL IMPACT
15 IMPACT REPORT0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140GREENHOUSE GAS
(GHG) INVENTORYWhile the everyday use of Tesla products by consumers has by far the 
biggest environmental impact, we also care deeply about operating 
our business and manufacturing our products in a sustainable way. 
Tesla has expanded its global manufacturing, charging, sales and 
service footprint rapidly in recent years. Keeping track of our various 
operational impacts allows us to implement e fficiency improvements 
that simultaneously reduce our impact on the environment and lower 
operational costs.
Global CO2 levels in the atmosphere are higher than ever. It is an 
unsustainable trend that drives Tesla’s mission to accelerate the 
world’s transition to sustainable energy. 
In 2017, Tesla established a baseline global carbon impact footprint 
across manufacturing, retail, distribution, sales, Supercharger, energy, 
warehouse and o ffice facilities. For this baseline year, Tesla focused on 
tracking electricity and natural gas usage for our sites. Moving forward,  
we will continue to build out this data, which will help us set speciﬁc 
targets with the goal of driving down our GHG footprint on a per-
product basis as we continue to grow our business. BUILDING A
SUSTAINABLE
FUTURE IN A
SUSTAINABLE WAY 
2017 GLOBAL CARBON IMPACTDirect Emissions Indirect Emissions
Emissions from sources owned 
or controlled by TeslaEmissions that are a consequence of Tesla activities, but 
occur at sources owned or controlled by other entities.
SUPERCHARGER
NETWORK
SALES, SERVICE
& DELIVERY
ENERGY
OPERATIONS146 FACILITIES
THOUSAND METRIC
TONS (CO2e)1664
39
33Energy efficiency plays an important role in Tesla’s long-term sustainable 
energy goal, and through active retroﬁtting of our existing facilities and 
the construction of new, more efficient facilities, we are working to 
reduce our energy use every day.
In our Fremont Factory, the installation of LED lighting, as well as 
efficiency improvements to manufacturing systems such as compressed 
air, castings, injection molding, water test booth and cooling towers, 
combined with a new energy-efficient paint shop, have resulted in over 
10 GWhs of energy savings over the last 5 years. These savings are the 
equivalent of the annual electricity consumption of almost 1K U.S.
households. As a result of many improvements, the energy usage at
the Fremont Factory per vehicle manufactured has decreased by 19% 
compared to 2016. 
In 2017, we established our energy-use baseline for the Fremont Factory. 
We have started the process of gathering energy intensity data for all of 
our main manufacturing locations and plan to add that information to 
the Impact Report in the future. ENERGY EFFICIENCY
17 IMPACT REPORTSustainability is at the heart of everything we do. In the same way our 
customers are adopting zero-emissions lifestyles by using solar energy 
systems, battery storage and all-electric vehicles, Tesla is also installing 
sustainable energy systems at our own facilities to utilize renewable 
energy generation and storage where possible.
As we continue to ramp production of Tesla products, we are committed 
to making signiﬁcant progress towards our goal of operating global 
Tesla manufacturing, vehicle charging and other operations using 100% 
renewable energy.SUSTAINABLE ENERGY18Tesla purchased the Fremont plant in 2010 and completed a signiﬁcant 
$3 billion modernization of the site to create one of the most advanced  
manufacturing facilities in the world. Originally built in the 1960s, the 
Fremont Factory contains 5.3M sq ft of manufacturing and o ffice 
space — the equivalent of over 90 American football ﬁelds. The original  
roof layout and building infrastructure make solar deployment on-site 
challenging, but our long-term plan is to install rooftop solar panels at 
this site where possible. The Fremont Factory is also home to one of 
our ﬁrst battery installations, originally commissioned in 2015. The 
Fremont Factory battery pack system monitors the facility’s energy 
use throughout the day and cuts back the amount of electricity taken 
from the grid during peak hours. This also helps to decrease demand 
on the local electric grid in addition to reducing the facility’s energy 
costs, as electricity purchased during peak hours is priced at a premium. FREMONT FACTORY
PRODUCT
Powerpack Battery1 MW / 2 MWh 
APPLICATION
Peak Shaving
Tesla builds every Model S, Model X and 
Model 3 at its factory in Fremont, where 
some vehicle components are also 
manufactured. In addition to the 10K+ 
employees at this factory, hundreds of 
robots are located throughout the facility, 
including on the Model 3 production line.Opened in 2013, Tesla’s Tilburg Factory
in the Netherlands spans 11-acres, houses 
a rooftop solar array and features an 
indoor driving track, quality control 
stations and several assembly lines.Tesla’s Tilburg Factory in the Netherlands serves as the local assembly, 
quality testing and distribution point for Model S and Model X vehicles 
sold in the European Union (EU). The Tilburg Factory houses a 3.4 MW 
solar array that consists of almost 10.5K solar modules. This solar 
system generates enough electricity to meet the Tilburg Factory’s 
energy needs throughout most of the year. To put the magnitude of 
the installation in perspective, it is the size of almost 3 European 
football ﬁelds and between July 2017 to June 2018 generated an 
amount of electricity that would have been su fficient to power 942 
households in the region. In other words, the solar power captured
by this system from that same time period would be su fficient to
meet the energy needs for electric vehicles to drive a combined
total of over 16.7M km (10.4M miles). TILBURG FACTORY LATHROP FACTORY With 431K sq ft of manufacturing space, Tesla’s Lathrop facility in 
California hosts computer numerical control (CNC) operations, 
machining and castings manufacturing. Located 50 miles from our 
Fremont Factory, the Lathrop facility features an installed battery 
operation that helps reduce peak energy consumption, alleviating 
stress on the electricity grid during heavy-use times and minimizing 
the dependence on peaker power plants. PRODUCT
Powerpack Battery2 MW / 4 MWh
APPLICATION
Peak Shaving
PRODUCT
Solar Array3.4 MW
APPLICATION
Facility’s Energy Needs
19 IMPACT REPORTUnlike our Fremont Factory which was purchased and renovated, Tesla 
designed and built from the ground up our Gigafactory 1, a battery and 
motor manufacturing facility in Sparks, Nevada, allowing us to design 
and implement sustainable solutions throughout the site from the 
beginning. Gigafactory 1 began mass production of lithium-ion battery 
cells in January 2017 and started manufacturing Model 3 battery packs 
and drive units in mid-2018. At 15M sq ft, Gigafactory 1 will be the 
world's largest building by footprint when completed and will eventually 
be powered by 100% renewable energy sources. Tesla built Gigafactory 
1 with an e fficient lighting design utilizing high-e fficiency LED light 
ﬁxtures combined with an optimized layout that reduces the facility’s 
overall electrical load. Gigafactory 1’s current lighting power density is 
0.45 watts per sq ft, which is 65% less than the American Society of 
Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) 
lighting design allowance of 1.3 watts per sq ft for a manufacturing 
facility. In the course of 30 days, the facility’s lighting system can save 
144 MWhs of energy – enough energy for a Model S to drive 480K 
miles. Designed to be a net-zero energy factory upon completion,
the facility will have the largest rooftop solar array in the world, with 
roughly 200K solar panels. Solar installation is already underway,
in addition to a microgrid R&D facility. GIGAFACTORY 1
Tesla’s Gigafactory 2 in Bu ffalo, New York, is located on the remediated  
RiverBend brownﬁeld site that was previously home to Republic Steel 
until its closure in 1984. As an abandoned heavy industrial site, the land  
suffered from a long history of extensive environmental contamination 
and required signiﬁcant rehabilitation before being put to its new use. 
During Gigafactory 2’s construction, old steel manufacturing debris 
removed from the site included everything from old rail boxcars to 
contaminated slag in the soil. Now, the brownﬁeld is restored and 
home to a new 1.2M sq ft clean energy manufacturing complex where 
Tesla’s solar energy products are made. The facility is symbolic of the 
comprehensive clean up and transformation of the adjacent Bu ffalo 
River, which is now valued as an environmental, economic and
community resource.GIGAFACTORY 2
20PRODUCT
Under constructionSolar Array
APPLICATION
Facility’s Energy NeedsSTATE RENEWABLE PORTFOLIO STANDARDSTesla’s manufacturing facilities in California (Fremont Factory), Nevada 
(Gigafactory 1) and New York (Gigafactory 2) are located within some
of the cleanest electricity grid mixes and most aggressive Renewable 
Portfolio Standard (RPS) Policies in the U.S. In states such as Nevada, 
which derives 11% of its energy from solar, or New York, which generates 
18% of its energy from hydropower, Tesla is able to purchase electricity 
with a low-carbon footprint. 
CALIFORNIA RPS
Currently ~30% 
0100%By 2030 By 2045
60%
NEW YORK RPS
Currently ~20%  50%By 2030
0
100%NEVADA RPS
Currently ~18%
0
100%25%By 2025FACTORY PROFILES
AND GRID MIXES
21 IMPACT REPORTThe facility’s sustainability e fforts include recycling 100% of any recyclable  
wood that comes into the plant, as well as reusing or recycling 90% of 
the plastic pallets provided by suppliers. Tesla is also working with local 
recyclers to develop a more robust recycling program that will continue 
to be implemented as the facility’s production grows.GIGAFACTORY 2
Gigafactory 2 currently produces solar 
cells and modules.Building a charging system that enables quick, convenient and long-
distance travel is critical to the mass adoption of electric vehicles.
In 2012, we opened our very ﬁrst Supercharger station and have
since deployed over 12K Superchargers, building out the world’s
fastest and most extensive charging network for Tesla vehicle owners. 
Superchargers are strategically placed to allow owners to take long 
road trips with minimal stops and are located near restaurants, co ffee 
shops, markets and other convenient amenities. With charging speeds 
up to 120 kW, the typical driver charges for about 30 minutes before 
continuing their journey.
While the electricity grid varies from region to region, charging electric
vehicles is cleaner than ever. In the U.S., coal has historically been the 
dominant energy source for generating electricity, but in the last 
decade, coal power has declined signiﬁcantly. Instead, energy
generated by sustainable sources has grown rapidly, accounting for
an estimated 70% of new electric generation capacity in 2017. Many 
U.S. states have been making signiﬁcant investments in new renewable 
energy resources now that they are competitively priced with fossil 
fuel resources. For example, California generated approximately 30% 
of its electricity needs from renewable energy sources in 2017, up from 
12% in 2009, and the state is targeting 60% by 2030. To put this in 
perspective, GHG emissions from charging an average all-electric 
vehicle in the U.S. is equivalent to the emissions that would be 
produced by a conventional ICE vehicle that gets a fuel economy of 
80 MPG. Keep in mind, the average ICE vehicle gets around 22 MPG.SUPERCHARGERS
Superchargers globally12,800+
99%
U.S. population within
150 miles of a Supercharger36
Countries with SuperchargersSupercharger Stations1,400+
40-stall Supercharger station in
Kettleman City, California with
solar panels.
22Even when electric vehicles are charged in regions that derive much of 
their electricity from the burning of fossil fuels, the electricity production 
needed to charge electric vehicles is still considerably less harmful to the 
environment than ﬁlling up an ICE vehicle gas tank. For example, as of 
July 2018, according to the U.S. Department of Energy’s Alternative Fuels 
Data Center, even in Texas — one of the states with the highest amount
of electricity coming from fossil fuels at 75% — emissions related to the 
production of electricity used in electric vehicles are still over 22% lower 
than gasoline cars and almost 5% lower than plug-in hybrid vehicles.
In states with a much higher proportion of electricity generated from 
renewable energy generation, such as California, the e ffect of lower 
emissions from driving electric vehicles as compared to gasoline or 
plug-in hybrid vehicles is far greater. The reality is that while burning
gasoline won’t get cleaner, driving on electricity continues to get cleaner 
— all while delivering immediate health and environmental beneﬁts. 
Governments around the world are recognizing the harmful impact
of ICE vehicle emissions, with Norway, India, France and others aiming
to ban sales of ICE vehicles as soon as the next decade.
As more regions adopt sustainable energy solutions, emissions related to 
electric vehicle charging will decrease even further. All Tesla vehicles 
produce signiﬁcantly less CO2 than any gasoline-powered competitor – 
and if an electric vehicle is powered by solar energy, essentially no CO2
is produced at all. In the EU, where Tesla has the option to select local 
energy providers, over 85% of energy delivered by our Superchargers is 
produced by clean, low-carbon energy sources, including solar, wind and 
hydropower. In the future, as we continue to expand our global charging 
network, our goal is to strategically pair solar and battery storage at as 
many Supercharger stations as possible.SUPERCHARGERS
Tesla’s Supercharger station in
Arlington, Texas.STATE OF TEXAS ANNUAL
EMISSIONS PER VEHICLE
(LBS OF C02 EQUIVALENT)
0
5K
10K
Gasoline12K
Hybrid6.5K
All Electric 5KPlug-in Hybrid 7K
23 IMPACT REPORT24The Fremont Factory was originally
home to General Motors (GM) from 
1962-82, and then GM and Toyota’s 
partnership, New United Motor 
Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI), from 
1984-2009, when the partnership
ended. Tesla purchased the facility
in 2010 and is working to nearly
double its size to almost 10M sq ft.Balers enable us to generate recycling revenue from cardboard and
to turn loose ﬁlms and bubble wrap into recyclable commodities. 
Styrofoam densiﬁers convert a small room’s worth of foam into a 
dense brick of hard plastic the size of a briefcase. This 50:1 densiﬁcation  
ratio converts a commodity we previously had to pay to get rid of
into a revenue-generating recyclable.Plastic recycled at Fremont in 2017,
a 9% year-over-year increase
despite challenges in the global
market for recycled plastics.2,900 tonsPounds of organics sent for compost1.9M
We streamlined the recycling process for metal scraps from our stamping  
presses that create metal parts for Model S, Model X and Model 3 by 
using an online bidding platform to provide local and international 
recyclers easier access to our scrap metals. Decommissioned and 
scrapped materials, such as charging equipment, motor components, 
wiring, metal casings, wheel rims and more, are also recycled through 
this platform. This systematic categorization of scrapped materials 
enables signiﬁcant economic recovery for Tesla from parts otherwise 
destined for the landﬁll or a scrapyard.MATERIALS RECYCLINGAs a manufacturing company, minimizing waste at Tesla goes beyond 
recycling o ffice and café consumables. Whether via reuse, recycling or 
compost, e fforts to divert material waste from ending up in a landﬁll or a 
waste-to-energy facility are found throughout all Tesla manufacturing, 
service and o ffice facilities.
In 2016, the Fremont Factory was certiﬁed as a “Zero Waste” facility, and 
was recognized for our commitment to recycling and product reuse. In 
2017, the Fremont Factory diverted over 93% of waste from landﬁlls to 
recycling or to a waste-to-energy facility. Our on-site recycling center 
allows the “commoditization” of di fferent recyclable materials. CASE STUDY:
SPOTLIGHT ON
FREMONT FACTORYWhen we ﬁrst opened the Fremont Factory in 2010, Tesla operations 
were a fraction of the total footprint. As areas within the facility expand, 
we send parts that are no longer needed to an onsite “store” where these 
items can be used by other Tesla teams. For example, surplus eye-wash 
station signs from the Fremont Factory were made available to a new 
area opening within our Lathrop facility. This reuse e ffort has resulted in 
millions of dollars in avoided costs, and contributes signiﬁcantly to our 
efforts to divert as much waste as possible from landﬁlls. ON-SITE PRODUCT 
RE-USE STORE
Through e fficiency improvements and water reuse systems, we work
to lower the per-product water usage in our manufacturing process.
In addition, water reduction e fforts are included in our sales, service
and delivery facilities. Where possible, our service technicians use a 
waterless car wash method to maintain Tesla vehicles while minimizing 
environmental impacts. 
Throughout the Fremont Factory, water use per vehicle manufactured 
dropped by 9% from 2016 to 2017. In 2017, we established a water-use 
baseline for our manufacturing and support operations. During the 
same period, global water use was 8.77 m3 per vehicle.  As we increase 
production in coming years, we expect water use per vehicle to 
decrease signiﬁcantly.
Our main manufacturing facilities are not only looking to increase 
water-use e fficiencies, but also to improve wastewater and stormwater 
management. These projects include reverse osmosis and distilled water 
system installations to improve water quality and to allow existing water 
sources to be recycled and reused in other processing areas such as
the closed-loop system of our facilities’ cooling towers. Projects in 
development include water mapping to identify opportunities for either 
recycling or increased passes in our closed-loop systems as well as
leak identiﬁcation. At Gigafactory 2, Tesla is dedicated to making our 
production activities supportive of the comprehensive cleanup and 
transformation of the Bu ffalo River and to ensure the waterway remains 
a rich environmental, economic and community resource.WATER
25 IMPACT REPORTBATTERY RECYCLING A common question we hear is, “What happens to Tesla vehicle battery 
packs once they reach their end of life?” An important distinction 
between fossil fuels and lithium-ion batteries as an energy source is
that while fossil fuels are extracted and used once, the materials in a 
lithium-ion battery are recyclable. When petroleum is pumped out of
the ground, chemically reﬁned and then burned, it releases harmful 
emissions into the atmosphere that are not recovered for reuse. Battery 
materials, in contrast, are reﬁned and put into a cell, and will still remain 
at the end of their life, when they can be recycled to recover its valuable 
materials for reuse over and over again.
Since Tesla battery packs are made to last many years, we are only just 
starting to receive these batteries back from the ﬁeld. Currently, most 
of the batteries for recycling come to us through  R&D, manufacturing, 
quality control and service operations. 
Today, we work with third-party recyclers around the world to process all 
scrap and end-of-life batteries to recover valuable metals. Our recycling 
partners work with us to ensure that non-valuable or non-recoverable 
materials from the batteries are disposed of responsibly. At Gigafactory 
1, Tesla is developing a unique battery recycling system that will process 
both battery manufacturing scrap and end-of-life batteries. Through
this system, the recovery of critical minerals such as lithium and cobalt
will be maximized along with the recovery of all metals used in the 
battery cell, such as copper, aluminum and steel. All of these materials
will be recovered in forms optimized for new battery material production. 
The closed-loop battery recycling process at Gigafactory 1 presents
a compelling solution to move energy supply away from the fossil-fuel 
based practice of take, make and burn, to a more circular model of 
recycling end-of-life batteries for reuse over and over again. From an 
economic perspective, we expect to recognize signiﬁcant savings over 
the long term, as the costs associated with large-scale battery material 
recovery and recycling will be far lower than purchasing and
transporting new materials.
262014 rendering of Gigafactory 1,
prior to Tesla beginning construction
on the 3.2K-acre site. Tesla is currently 
building a solar array on the rooftop 
to power the factory with sunlight.
ROOFTOP SOLAR ARRAYTesla ﬁrst broke ground on Gigafactory 1 in 2014, providing the
opportunity to build a truly sustainable facility from the ground up.
Located in Sparks, Nevada, the facility is being built in phases so that 
Tesla and our partners can manufacture inside the ﬁnished sections as 
we continue to expand. This phased approach allows us to learn and 
continuously improve our construction and operational techniques as 
we drive down the cost of battery production. As with many of our 
manufacturing processes, Tesla applies ﬁrst-principles thinking  to 
achieve e fficiencies across all areas of Gigafactory 1, translating into 
lower operating costs. Since batteries remain the costliest part of 
electric vehicles, these e fficiencies are ultimately reﬂected in the cost 
of the ﬁnal product, allowing us to get more vehicles to consumers.CASE STUDY:
GIGAFACTORY 1 —
SUSTAINABLE
BY DESIGN
WATER STORAGE
AND RE-USE SYSTEM
IMPACT REPORT 27 IMPACT REPORTOne unique aspect of Gigafactory 1 is that there is no natural gas
line within the factory. Tesla made this decision at the design stage 
because we wanted a sustainably-powered facility with no on-site 
combustion of fossil fuels. While challenging to achieve from a design 
perspective due to manufacturing processes that require high levels
of energy or heat (like high-temperature ovens), Tesla engineered 
thermal systems to maximize heat recovery resulting in signiﬁcant 
energy e fficiency gains compared to standard industrial designs.
This included using heat pumps to upgrade low-temperature waste 
heat from manufacturing, thus reducing the energy used to heat the 
facility by over 80% compared to traditional electric heaters and is 
expected to save over 16K MWh in the winter season. The facility
also has a heat exchanger system to recover more than 60% of the 
heat from the exhaust of industrial ovens. ELIMINATING NATURAL
GAS LINES: MAXIMIZING
HEAT RECOVERY
Tesla designed the Gigafactory 1 roof with a white reﬂective surface and 
no obstructions, so that it is a perfect ﬁt for solar panels. Designed to 
be a net-zero energy facility upon completion, Gigafactory 1 will be 
powered primarily by solar from the rooftop solar installation that is 
currently underway.THE PERFECT SYSTEM:
DESIGNING FOR SOLAR
28Several battery manufacturing areas throughout the facility require very 
low levels of humidity during production (<300 ppmm), and creating
dry air for these areas can be costly and require a lot of energy. Because 
Gigafactory 1 is located in the high desert of Nevada, Tesla was able to 
turn to nature itself and pull in outside air that starts with much less 
moisture. Tesla also conﬁgured its compressors and dehumidiﬁer to take 
the heat rejected by the compressor to supply over 50% of the heat 
required to be dehumidiﬁed. The facility’s unique system dramatically 
reduces the energy and cost required to produce dry air compared to 
manufacturing facilities located in more humid regions.BRINGING THE OUTSIDE
IN: OUR NATURAL
AIR SYSTEMAerial view of Gigafactory 1 in the winter.Traditional cell manufacturing is energy intensive, resulting in large 
amounts of heat dissipated from manufacturing equipment that 
must be removed from the building. This heat removal is achieved
by pumping chilled water throughout the entire factory. Conventional 
chilled water generation consumes an enormous amount of electric 
power and water, even with high-e fficiency chillers. To reduce the 
economic and energy costs of generating this chilled water, Tesla 
designed and built a one-of-a-kind chilled water plant precisely tuned 
to take advantage of the vast daily temperature swings and dry desert 
air by equipping Gigafactory 1 with a 10M gallon concrete thermal 
energy storage reservoir.  At night, when the ambient air is cool and 
dry and the factory operates e fficiently, it intentionally generates more 
chilled water than is needed for the manufacturing processes and the 
excess is stored in the reservoir. Then, during the daytime when the 
hot desert sun is beaming and causing the factory to operate at low 
efficiency, the stored cold water is sent throughout the factory to 
provide all cooling needs.  By shifting the generation of chilled water 
to the night time, the factory is able to operate in “dry mode” so that 
no water evaporation is required for a greater percentage of time and 
there is no consumption of water during these periods. This improved 
design is expected to reduce the factory’s chilled water electrical 
consumption by as much as 40% and water consumption up to 60%, 
pushing Gigafactory 1 toward its net-zero emissions goals.COLD DESERT
NIGHTS: THERMAL
WATER STORAGE 
29 IMPACT REPORT30To manufacture lithium-ion batteries, a solvent is used to coat
metal electrodes inside the cell. During manufacturing, this solvent 
evaporates and is carried away with warm air, leaving behind powders 
coated evenly on the metal foil. The solvent vapor is then condensed 
out of the air, and the used solvent is collected as a waste liquid.
In conventional battery factories, this used-solvent liquid is trucked 
offsite to third-party processing centers. To avoid the high ﬁnancial 
and energy costs of this o ffsite treatment, Tesla designed our own 
dedicated solvent reﬁning process to convert waste solvent back into 
reusable solvent in a closed-loop fashion. This solvent reﬁning system 
was constructed onsite and has been operating since the end of 2017, 
demonstrating a greater than 95% conversion of waste solvent. This 
system has also eliminated the need for more than 30 tanker trucks 
per week that previously would have transported this material to and 
from an outside reﬁner. Due to our onsite reﬁning system that was 
designed speciﬁcally for this application, the purity of this reﬁned 
solvent has shown to be even higher than solvent purchased from 
third-party suppliers.
The solvent reﬁning process is typically very energy intensive, so Tesla 
developed a custom heat pumping system to minimize total energy 
consumption. Waste heat that is usually sent to a cooling tower is 
instead captured as recovered heat. The implementation of this closed-
loop steam-water vapor compression heat pump system resulted in an 
approximately 85% reduction in energy consumption when compared 
to a standard system. This heat pump system was the ﬁrst patent 
application ﬁled for any Gigafactory 1-related operation and was
granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademarks O ffice in November 2017.ZERO WASTE: SOLVENT
RECOVERY SYSTEM03
31 IMPACT REPORT
SUPPLY CHAIN3032Tesla is committed to only sourcing responsibly produced materials. 
The Tesla Supplier Code of Conduct  (Code) and our Human Rights
and Conﬂict Minerals Policy  outline our expectations of all suppliers 
and partners who work with us. Tesla is committed to making working 
conditions in our supply chain safe and humane, ensuring that workers 
are treated with respect and dignity and that manufacturing processes 
are environmentally responsible. Tesla suppliers are required to 
provide evidence of management systems that ensure social,
environmental and sustainability best practices in their own
operations, as well as to demonstrate a commitment to responsible 
sourcing into their supply chains.
Our complex supply chain is a unique hybrid of the traditional
automotive and high-tech industries and encompasses suppliers from 
around the world. Many of our Tier 1 suppliers (i.e. direct suppliers)
do not purchase all of their raw materials directly and instead obtain 
them from their suppliers and sub-suppliers. Therefore, reliably
determining the origin is a di fficult task, but the due diligence practices 
required of our suppliers adds transparency to help us and our 
suppliers adhere to the responsible sourcing principles of our Code.
Our Tier 1 suppliers are required to register and complete the
domestic and international material compliance requirements in
the International Material Data System (IMDS) to meet EU and other 
international material and environmental related regulations. This 
requirement is mandated for all suppliers who supply their products
or raw materials to us as part of our production-parts approval 
process. Tesla, along with our partners and independent third parties, 
conducts audits to observe these principles in action. If there is a 
reasonable basis to believe a supplier partner is in violation of the 
Code, Tesla will transition away from that relationship unless the 
violation is cured in a satisfactory manner.RESPONSIBLE
SOURCING33 IMPACT REPORTWhile Tesla’s responsible sourcing practices apply to all materials and 
supply chain partners, we recognize the conditions associated with 
select artisanal mining (ASM) of cobalt in the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo (DRC). To assure the cobalt in Tesla’s supply chain does not 
come from ASM sites, we have implemented targeted due diligence 
procedures for cobalt sourcing. 
We have visited many cobalt mines and processing plants that 
support Tesla’s main supply chain, as well as potential future suppliers
throughout the world. We discuss with these suppliers the major risks 
they face and the practices they have implemented to mitigate these 
risks. Safeguards include chain of custody controls and iterative 
checks performed from mining through customer delivery to combat 
illegal or artisanal ore use; on-site security and access control; hiring 
practices and management engagement to protect against child labor 
onsite; internal and third-party audit practices; and engagement with 
local communities to maintain a positive social license to operate. 
It is important to note that there is very little cobalt in Tesla’s battery 
cells. On a relative basis, cobalt is not that signiﬁcant to the composition  
of Tesla’s battery cells, as we mainly use batteries based on a nickel-
cobalt-aluminum oxide (NCA) chemistry, which contain substantially 
less cobalt than the industry standard batteries based on a nickel-
manganese-cobalt oxide (NMC) chemistry. Cells used in Model 3 
production are the highest energy density cells used in any electric 
vehicle. We have achieved this by signiﬁcantly reducing cobalt content 
per battery pack while increasing nickel content and still maintaining 
superior thermal stability. The cobalt content of NCA cathode chemistry  
is already lower than next-generation cathodes that will be made by 
traditional battery cell producers with an NMC ratio of 8:1:1. Thus,
Tesla not only uses far less cobalt per vehicle than the rest of the 
electric vehicle industry but also plans to recycle and reuse the
cobalt at these batteries’ end of life. Tesla continues to look for ways 
to reduce the amount of cobalt used in our battery cells with a goal
of eliminating it entirely.COBALT34Tesla has a zero-tolerance policy towards human rights abuses in
our supply chain. Many Tesla products, like most electronics, contain 
minerals such as tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold, often referred to as 
“3TG”. While these minerals can be found in deposits all around the 
world, they also exist in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and 
surrounding areas. Tesla’s Human Rights and Conﬂict Minerals Policy
is in place to ensure that Tesla's products do not directly or indirectly 
ﬁnance or beneﬁt armed groups through mining or mineral trading
in the DRC and its adjoining countries. 
DOWNLOAD TESLA’S 2017 CONFLICT MINERALS REPORT
At Tesla, we strive to have a diverse supply chain and provide the 
maximum practical opportunities to provide goods and services as a 
part of the corporate procurement process. The use of diverse suppliers  
is an integral part of Tesla’s purchasing plans, just as equal opportunity 
employment is central to our personnel policies and procedures. Tesla 
recognizes that supplier diversity creates a competitive advantage
for the company and has a positive impact on the global community.
Tesla believes that the success of our company and society depends 
on enabling diverse businesses to share and grow in the global market.CONFLICT MINERALS
SUPPLIER DIVERSITYEMPLOYEES AND CULTURE
04
35 IMPACT REPORT36We’re on a mission to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable 
energy. Along the way, we’re building a culture that is safe, fair and 
exciting for all of our employees. It is incredibly important to Tesla that 
everyone looks forward to coming to work every day. We are proud to 
have built a company ﬁlled with employees of all backgrounds who 
possess the energy and drive to accelerate our vision forward. INTRODUCTION
Our goal is to have the safest car factory  in the world. Car manufacturers 
have historically built cars by relying heavily on physical activity that 
could cause stress or harm to the body. We seek to create new methods 
of manufacturing that will result in as close to zero injuries as possible. 
To achieve this goal, Tesla’s Global Environmental, Health and Safety 
(EHS) team has built a strategy based on three pillars:
1. DO THE BASICS RIGHT
Active Health & Safety Committees and implementation of standardized 
reporting and trending for all sites globally have led to increased visibility 
of corrective actions and the application of learnings in all regions.
2. ENGAGE OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We are implementing change management processes to design EHS into 
our products, while our employees continuously help identify issues and 
suggest process improvements.
3. REDUCE RISK
We launched a “Find It-Fix It” campaign globally and are implementing
a global document control and communications process, as well as 
creating a life-saving and life-altering risk control system.BECOMING THE SAFEST
CAR FACTORY IN
THE WORLD37 IMPACT REPORTWhile injury and illness rates are useful indicators of a company’s safety 
and health environment, reliance on lagging indicators can sometimes 
lead to the wrong conclusion. Thus, we also focus on leading indicators, 
such as safety training, ergonomic opportunities and our global “Find-it; 
Fix-it” improvement campaign that was kicked o ff globally in 2017.
We ended 2018 with over 60K improvements, which were the result of 
engagement at all levels, including employee suggestions, leadership 
walkthroughs, safety team meetings, as well as audits and inspections.BECOMING THE SAFEST
CAR FACTORY IN
THE WORLD
TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR)
NUMMI (AVERAGE 2003-2009) TESLA FACTORY (2018)024681012
12.6
6.2
Our commitment is to design and build the best possible products for 
both our customers and our employees. Safety is a core value for our 
operations at Tesla, and we have made signiﬁcant strides since the 
days of ramping production of our ﬁrst models. We’ve taken our 
learnings from building Model S and Model X and applied them to 
designing the manufacturing process for Model 3. Tesla’s ergonomics 
team was heavily involved in the development of Model 3 assembly 
lines by using a virtual reality program to study the exact movements 
that would be used by our employees when building the car. This 
effort signiﬁcantly improved ergonomics on the Model 3 assembly line 
by reducing potential stresses and strains.THE SAFEST CARS
FOR CUSTOMERS
AND EMPLOYEESThe average TRIR for the Fremont Factory is lower than when the facility was operated as 
NUMMI prior to Tesla’s acquisition in 2010.
Our employees have provided safety solutions through active
safety teams and transparent reporting of incidents. Based on a 
company-wide 360-survey in January 2018, of the 88% of employees 
who responded, 83% agreed that Tesla cares about their safety
and well-being.  
We proactively started an industrial athlete early symptom intervention  
program at our Fremont Factory to identify and act upon opportunities  
for improvement. We are committed to engaging with our workforce 
on safety issues. For example, our leaders conduct walkthroughs and 
events so our employees have a voice to continuously improve our 
work environment.THE SAFEST CARS
FOR CUSTOMERS
AND EMPLOYEES
Tesla employees working on the Model 3 
line at the Fremont factory.
3839 IMPACT REPORTWe believe it is important for everyone to be an owner of the company. 
That is why, unlike other car companies, everyone who works at Tesla is 
awarded shares of Tesla stock and can buy additional Tesla stock at a 
discount through the employee stock purchase program. The value of 
Tesla’s shares has increased signiﬁcantly since our IPO in 2010. The
importance of equity awards cannot be ignored, especially in Silicon Valley.
Tesla o ffers competitive wages and beneﬁts in every market in which
we operate. In addition, we periodically review each employee’s total 
compensation and make adjustments as necessary. We also believe in 
pay-for-performance and in providing ample opportunities for individuals  
to receive incremental base-pay increases and equity awards as they 
build their Tesla careers. We proactively examine whether pay parity 
issues exist to help ensure our employees are paid consistently
regardless of gender, race or ethnicity. 
Tesla’s entry-level wages for production employees at our Fremont
Factory are higher than those of other automakers, and that is before 
equity and beneﬁts are factored in, which are equivalent to an additional 
60% of base pay. One-fourth of Tesla’s entry-level production employees 
in Fremont are promoted within a year, at which point they earn an hourly  
wage that is 14% higher than comparable positions at Ford, GM and Fiat-
Chrysler. Tesla maintains the ﬂexibility to regularly increase wages and has 
done so 3 times in the past 2 years. In comparison, union-represented 
facilities’ wage increases are typically ﬁxed for 4-year periods.REWARDING THE
INDIVIDUAL
DIVERSITY AND
INCLUSION At Tesla, we strive to hire the best and brightest employees, regardless 
of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, national origin, 
disability, protected veteran status, gender expression or gender 
identity, and any other protected status under applicable law. We work 
hard to create a diverse and inclusive workforce composed of talented  
individuals not just because it’s the right thing to do, but because our 
differences are what make us stronger and smarter as a company. 
Focusing on hiring outstanding talent, we also work to ensure that
we have a diverse pipeline of candidates by completing outreach in
the communities where we operate.Every year, Tesla employees participate
in Pride parades across the country, 
including the most recent Los Angeles 
Pride Festival.One of the many ways Tesla ampliﬁes diversity and inclusion is through 
employee resource groups led by fellow employees to encourage peers 
to share ideas, build relationships and take advantage of mentorship 
opportunities. Our employee resource groups include: Black@Tesla, 
Intersectionality@Tesla , LGBTQ@Tesla, Teslatinos, Veterans Taskforce 
and Women In Tesla. They serve as a resource regarding employee and 
community issues, ideas and policies and promote a company culture
of inclusion, respect and support for everyone. 
Tesla is absolutely against any form of discrimination, harassment
or unfair treatment of any kind.  We hold each other accountable for
our actions and provide a structure by which employees can suggest 
improvements or report issues. This includes anti-discrimination and 
anti-sexual harassment training courses for employees and mandatory 
training for managers and executives to understand and discuss their 
role as leaders to continually improve our work environment. AMPLIFY — TO BUILD A
DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE AND
SAFE ENVIRONMENT
4041 IMPACT REPORTINTEGRATE — TO CONNECT
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
TO THE BUSINESS AND
EMPLOYEESDiversity and inclusion is integrated into our business, recruiting and the 
communities in which we work. Our leaders review their demographics 
and create business action plans in order to continue to lead an inclusive  
workforce. We require a diverse interview panel to reﬂect the diversity
of our candidates, and provide our recruiting  team with unconscious bias 
training to uncover and mitigate their biases when reviewing potential 
Tesla candidates. We also partner with the Public Workforce Systems,
a network of U.S. federal, state and local o ffices that support economic 
expansion and development of the U.S.’s workforce, to train and recruit 
diverse talent.
These partners include the Department of Veteran’s A ffairs, Department
of Social Services, Department of Labor, Department of Education and 
various government agencies and community resources. Tesla also has 
collaborative partnerships with organizations utilizing The Workforce 
Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), an initiative that provides 
employment services, develops career pathways, training programs and 
talent pipelines. WIOA provides U.S. federal funds to eligible community-
based organizations to help job seekers, workers and businesses with 
career services, job training and education. 
Our production leads reﬂect the diversity of the Fremont Factory, with 
over two-thirds identifying as Asian, Hispanic/Latino, African American 
or Other. Having a diverse workforce is only one piece of our impact
as an organization. We know that our suppliers and those that we do 
business with also impact the communities that we serve. We have 
many diverse suppliers in our portfolio, and we require all vendors to 
abide by our Code  and to understand our commitment to diversity. We 
also participate  in outreach events with certiﬁed diverse suppliers to 
continue to broaden the range of our vendor base, such as the California  
Public Utilities Commission’s Small and Diverse Business Expo.42EXCELLENCE —
THE PASSING GRADEWe connect with industry leadership, external partners, government 
agencies and universities to push the envelope in technology,
manufacturing and the overall business of Tesla. For example, Tesla 
partners with Watermark, AnitaB.Org, National Society of Black Engineers , 
Society of Women Engineers, Women in Automotive, Lesbians Who 
Tech + Allies, Wounded Warrior Project and more. These partnerships 
provide us with numerous  opportunities to recruit diverse talent and 
provide valuable leadership development and networking communities 
for our employees. 
As we work to achieve our mission, we look to our employees and 
external experts to help review our practices and provide us with 
feedback so that we can continue to improve. As one example, the 
Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index is the national 
benchmarking tool on corporate policies and practices pertinent to 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer employees. Tesla is proud 
to have received a score of 100/100 on the Corporate Equality Index 
for 5 years in a row, and has been named in the “Best Places to Work 
for LGBTQ Equality” from the Human Rights Campaign.
As a Military Friendly Employer, we are proud to have one of the largest 
veteran groups in the state of California and over 1.8K veterans in our 
workforce globally. We support numerous organizations that sponsor 
veteran hiring including CA State Employment Development Department  
offices, The Work for Warriors program, the U.S. Army PaYS program 
and the U.S. Army Reserve’s Private Public Partnership Program. Tesla 
Energy is also the founding recruiting partner of the U.S. Department
of Energy’s Solar Ready Vets program, providing accelerated  training
to help place transitioning veterans into the solar industry. Tesla’s Veterans Task Force participated
in Reno’s annual Veterans Day Parade. 
We’re proud of the veterans working at 
Tesla, and their dedication, commitment 
and work ethic to helping transition the 
world to sustainable energy.EMPLOYEE
MOBILITY AND
TRANSPORTATION
PROGRAMSTo reduce our employees’ carbon impact on the environment, Tesla 
offers alternative transportation programs to provide them with a more 
sustainable way of commuting, like Tesla’s bike-to-work program in the 
U.S. Tesla also encourages ride sharing through a variety of carpooling 
services. We operate a network of commuter shuttles to and from work 
to reduce not only vehicle emissions, but also time spent in tra ffic too.
In the Bay Area, almost 4K employees take shuttles to work a day and
in Nevada, roughly 2K employees ride shuttles to Gigafactory a day, 
lowering commuting costs for our employees. Several hundred of our 
employees also carpool daily, and Tesla encourages all employees to 
take public transportation to work, subsidizing these costs in select 
markets. Naturally, Tesla also has hundreds of electric vehicle charging 
stations  at our facilities to encourage Tesla employees to go electric.
43 IMPACT REPORTTesla partners with local high schools, universities and nonproﬁts
to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy and address 
the growing demand for science, technology, engineering and
mathematics (STEM) jobs. Utilizing student grade-speciﬁc activities, 
Tesla has increased access for students in California to early professional  
experiences by providing career exposure workshops, STEM/STEAM 
hands-on activities, factory tours, and speaking opportunities at 
facilities  and local community events, including at the Community 
Youth Center of San Francisco.
In Nevada, growth in STEM jobs is projected to be 40% higher than
in non-STEM jobs between 2014-2024. To prepare students for
manufacturing and engineering careers at Tesla and other companies, 
Tesla is investing $37.5M in Nevada K-12 education over the next 5 years  
– a commitment we made in 2014 when we ﬁnalized plans to locate 
Gigafactory 1 in Sparks. As part of our workforce development,
Tesla also launched a high school graduate apprenticeship, the
Manufacturing  Development Program, to educate and recruit talent 
from diverse high schools across the state to become Production 
Associates at Gigafactory 1. In the last two years, we hosted over
250 educational tours of Gigafactory 1 for more than 3K students, 
teachers and administrators.EDUCATION
Nevada high school students tour 
Gigafactory 1 as part of Tesla’s new 
Manufacturing Development Program —
an apprenticeship designed to accelerate 
high school graduates’ careers by giving 
them full-time employment at Tesla and 
opportunities to receive credits from 
a nearby community college.
4445 IMPACT REPORTNear Gigafactory 2 in Bu ffalo, Tesla partners with Erie Community 
College and local high schools for the Solar Pathways Program, which 
exposes students to careers in the energy sector and creates a pipeline 
for local jobs.
To put students at the forefront of the electric vehicle revolution, in
2018, we introduced Tesla START , an intensive 12-week training program 
designed to provide students with the skills necessary to jump start a 
career at a Tesla Service Center. The program is currently running in the 
San Jose, Los Angeles, Seattle, Charlotte, and Miami regions, where 
dozens of students are developing technical expertise and earning 
certiﬁcates through a blended approach of in-class theory, hands-on labs 
and self-paced learning.EDUCATION
Our Board of Directors sets high standards for our employees, o fficers 
and directors, and we periodically add new, highly qualiﬁed directors
to the Board, such as Larry Ellison and Kathleen Wilson-Thompson
in 2018, Linda Johnson Rice and James Murdoch  in 2017 and Robyn 
Denholm  in 2014. Implicit in this philosophy is the importance of sound 
corporate governance to help us achieve our goals. We are committed 
to establishing an operating framework that exercises appropriate 
oversight of responsibilities at all levels throughout the company and 
manages its a ffairs consistent with high principles of business ethics. As 
detailed on our Investor Relations website , we have a number of policies 
that set the high standards we hold ourselves to, including our Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics  and our Corporate Governance Guidelines .CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE46We also train our personnel on other corporate governance policies, 
such as our Worldwide Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy . This policy 
boils down to: “Don’t o ffer any bribe to anybody, anytime, for any 
reason (and when in doubt, please consult with the General Counsel
or the Legal Department).”  Additionally, we maintain and enforce an 
OFAC compliance policy, which allows us to make sure that we don’t 
participate in transactions with sanctioned countries, legal entities or 
individuals, such as terrorists or narcotics tra ffickers.
We believe in regular and transparent communication with employees. 
We encourage Tesla employees to share their feedback openly (and 
anonymously if they prefer), and the company provides easy methods 
to do so. We regularly conduct employee surveys to identify strengths 
and opportunities for improvement. We have a robust action planning 
process to ensure we proactively address the concerns or feedback.
As a result of recent feedback, we have invested additional resources
in our performance and leadership training.
We also have a whistleblower hotline through which employees can 
report concerns at any time. The company keeps information reported
by employees in conﬁdence, whether through the hotline or another 
channel. Our policies prohibit retaliatory actions against employees for 
raising concerns or making complaints. We are committed to maintaining 
an open and transparent culture where it is safe and acceptable for all 
employees to raise concerns about policy violations by their manager
or colleagues or about the workplace overall.CORPORATE
GOVERNANCEDRIVEN BY
SUSTAINABILITYSustainability is what drives us at Tesla, and it’s not just about our 
products — it’s the values, manufacturing and mission of our business. 
It’s at the core of everything we do and what drives us in the work that 
we do. To achieve a zero-emissions future, we’ve implemented several 
programs and initiatives at our manufacturing facilities and in the 
communities in which we operate, providing clean energy, partnering 
with local schools and nonproﬁts and everything in between. We’re a 
company of sustainability ambassadors — looking for ways to continue 
to set concrete sustainability goals and the paths we intend to take to 
achieve them — which will be shared in future Tesla Impact Reports.
We are proud of the work we have done thus far and look forward to 
sharing how our continued sustainability e fforts make a di fference in the 
world and to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy.
In July 2018, Tesla employees celebrated 
achieving an incredible Company milestone 
of producing 5K Model 3s per week.
47 IMPACT REPORT48ENERGY UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
SYMBOL UNIT OF ENERGY EQUIVALENT CONSUMPTION AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO 1TWh
kWh kilowatt-hour 1 kWh = Ten 100-watt light bulbs on for 1 hour 1,000,000,000 kWhs
MWh megawatt-hour 1 MWh = Avg. U.S. household for 1 month 1,000,000 MWhs
GWh gigawatt-hour 1 GWh = 100 avg. U.S. households for 1 year˜ 1,000 GWhs
TWh terawatt-hour 1 TWh = 100,000 avg. U.S. households for 1 year 1 TWhs ˜