DEXCOM, INC. 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
March 2020Whether it is charitable giving, employee wellbeing, waste reduction or ethical conduct, we 
firmly believe that Dexcom’s corporate citizenship investments are both the right choice 
for our long-term success of the business and the right thing to do. With this in mind, I am 
pleased to share Dexcom’s inaugural sustainability report. As you will see, together we’re 
making a positive impact on the world around us.  
I look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.Since its inception in 1999, Dexcom’s mission has 
been to make a positive impact on people’s lives. 
And while this impact starts with our industry-leading 
Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) technology,  
it does not end there. 
We advance the interests of all our stakeholders – 
including patients, caregivers, employees, investors, 
and our communities – by operating in an ethical and 
sustainable way. We do this by holding true to our 
core values: Listen, Think Big, Be Dependable, and 
Serve with Integrity. These values are at the heart of 
Dexcom’s Sustainability activities that span the globe.A LETTER FROM OUR CEO
Kevin Sayer
Chairman, President & CEO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
We use our Sustainability Report to share how we are managing our sustainability goals, 
as well as to respond to a broad set of stakeholder expectations and inquiries we receive 
throughout the year.
This report covers fiscal year results for the period ended December 31, 2019, unless 
otherwise noted.  Data includes our operations around the world, unless otherwise stated.  
Some data has been rounded.  Monetary figures are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.  
Dexcom undertakes no responsibility to update this information after the date of this report.A LETTER FROM OUR CEO ........................................................................................ 2
LISTEN ........................................................................................................................ 4
Listening to our Customers .................................................................................. 4
Dexcom Warriors ................................................................................................... 4
Dexcom and the Diabetes Community  ............................................................... 5
Advocating for Patient Choice ............................................................................. 7
“On the Bright Side” Notifications ...................................................................... 7
Listening to our People ......................................................................................... 8
Investing in our People ......................................................................................... 8
Supporting Our Employees and Their Families  ................................................. 8
Building a Diverse Workforce:  .......................................................................... 11
THINK BIG ................................................................................................................ 12
Access to Healthcare ........................................................................................... 14
Environmental Impact ........................................................................................ 17
Conserving Natural Resources .......................................................................... 17
Reducing Waste ................................................................................................... 18
Reducing Emissions and Effluents ..................................................................... 19
Education, Monitoring and Improvement ........................................................ 20
BE DEPENDABLE ...................................................................................................... 21
Quality .................................................................................................................. 21
Recent Initiatives ................................................................................................. 22
Employee Health and Safety .............................................................................. 23
SERVE WITH INTEGRITY ......................................................................................... 24
Board of Directors ............................................................................................... 25
Dexcom’s Compliance Program ......................................................................... 26
Data Privacy ......................................................................................................... 27Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  4LISTEN
The pursuit of continuous improvement and impact drives our global efforts at Dexcom. We pay 
attention to the evolving needs of our customers, healthcare providers, employees, researchers, 
payers, and broader set of stakeholders to exemplify “Listen,” one of our four core values.
Listening to our Customers
While Dexcom strives to design, manufacture and sell the best continuous glucose monitoring 
(CGM) technology, we also understand that the customer experience involves more than 
providing data and insights. Therefore, we have structured our company to listen to our 
customers and address their needs and interests.
The following initiatives are examples of the ways in which we actively participate in the diabetes 
community, and include some of the strategic initiatives and product developments  
that we’ve pursued in response to stakeholder feedback.
Dexcom Warriors
We believe that providing a forum for our customers’ voices is one of the best ways to learn 
from the diabetes community. In 2015, we established the Dexcom Warriors program and have 
quickly expanded it from 35 to more than 5,000 Warriors. Our Warriors are individuals with type 
1 and type 2 diabetes who have raised their hands, ready and eager to help increase awareness 
for diabetes and advocate for Dexcom. Warriors include social media influencers, athletes, 
celebrities, and ‘everyday’ people as well—parents, students, community leaders, and more.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 5 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.The Warrior program revolves around the inspirational stories 
that define each of our Warriors. By providing a platform for 
the incredible people who use our technology every day, we 
hope to educate the diabetes community and spark additional 
awareness of the benefits of using our CGM system to help 
manage diabetes. 
Dexcom and the Diabetes Community 
We also listen to the needs of the diabetes community by advocating for their efforts.  
This commitment includes our own direct support of non-profit organizations and clinical 
research, as well as our active encouragement of Dexcom employee participation within  
the diabetes community. Below are some of the highlights of our recent efforts:
• Partnering with leading diabetes advocates: 
For many years, Dexcom has stood alongside the Juvenile 
Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF) in their efforts to 
fund research, advocate to regulatory bodies, and provide 
community to people with Type 1 Diabetes. We have 
provided significant financial support to JDRF over the 
years and expect to continue to advocate with them  
as they advance their worldwide mission.
PROJECT 50-IN-50
The brainchild of Michael 
Shelver and Patrick Mertes, 
two outdoorsmen, living 
with type 1 diabetes (T1D), 
dedicated to proving to 
the world that anything is 
possible with T1D.
https://project50in50.org/Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  6• Encouraging our employees to give back  
to the community:
We actively encourage employee support of the JDRF 
One Walk fundraiser and event in San Diego, a 3K 
and 5K walk in support of JDRF’s ongoing research 
effort for the Type 1 diabetes community. In 2019, our 
employees raised more than $84,000 in support  
of this great cause.
We continue to support the efforts of Children with 
Diabetes (CWD), a non-profit organization that 
provides education and support for families living with 
Type 1 Diabetes. In 2019, our employees went beyond 
the corporate sponsorship of CWD’s Friends for Life 
Conferences (FFL), helping provide children and their 
families with an incredible experience at the FFL events 
and donating more than $40,000 of additional support.In support of Beyond Type 1, an organization 
dedicated to uniting the global diabetes community 
and providing solutions that improve the lives of 
people with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes, we partnered 
with Tandem Diabetes to co-sponsor the Beyond 
Type 1 New York City marathon team. This inspiring 
team included 30 runners, who have lived with Type 1 
diabetes for 385 years combined.
Employee-funded grants have provided additional 
support to the diabetes community, offering 
assistance to the following organizations in recent 
years: American Youth Understanding Diabetes 
Abroad (AYUDA), College Diabetes Network (CDN), 
DiabetesSisters, and Riding on Insulin.
• Enabling ongoing research and innovation:  
We maintain an active research program that not only 
manages our clinical efforts, but supports Investigator 
Initiated Studies, industry-sponsored studies using Dexcom 
CGM systems, and studies conducted by non-profits or 
research consortiums. For additional information on our 
ongoing research support as well as our publicly available 
diabetes education tools, please visit our provider site.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 7 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Advocating for Patient Choice
We recognize the value of patient choice in the diabetes technology community and have made 
significant efforts to integrate our CGM technology with multiple third-party insulin delivery 
options. This means that whether a customer chooses to use an insulin pump or an insulin pen, 
we want to enable them to monitor their glucose levels with a Dexcom CGM system. We have 
formed agreements with leading insulin delivery companies to deliver high-quality, integrated 
devices designed to improve the lives of those we serve.
“On the Bright Side” Notifications
Despite recent technological advancements, diabetes remains 
a burdensome disease. Through our ongoing engagement with 
our customer community, we repeatedly heard that people 
with diabetes were aware that they had features to warn them 
of danger and advise on next steps for diabetes management. 
However, users reported a lack of positive reinforcement within 
the technology platforms.
Dexcom introduced “On the Bright Side” notifications in 2019 
to address this emerging concern. The “Best Day” and “Time in 
Range” features (shown on the right) provide two examples of 
this initiative to reinforce positive behavior, while attempting  
to reduce the emotional burden of managing diabetes.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  8
Listening to our People
We understand the importance of working at companies that value each person’s 
unique skillsets. In order to foster this culture and continue to attract—and retain—
top talent throughout the organization, we must continue to listen to the unique 
needs of our people. 
Dexcom employs a diverse group of leaders, innovators, and creators who find 
common ground in our mission: to empower people to take control of diabetes. 
But we are also individuals with deeply personal aspirations. For that reason, 
our leadership strives to grow and inspire from the top down as we collectively 
embrace the Dexcom mission.
Investing in our People
We believe that investing in our talent’s growth and development will 
directly enhance our overall company performance. In 2019, we launched 
a comprehensive career development site called DexcomGO that includes 
employee resources focusing on the advancement of six core competencies that 
we identify as essential for our workforce:“We’re Listening”: 
Each year, we reinforce our 
commitment to our people by 
offering a survey titled “We’re 
Listening.” In 2019, 81% of our 
global workforce completed the 
survey, up from 79% in 2018.  
In the most recent survey,  
we trended positively in every 
question related to direct 
management. This encouraging 
result demonstrates the 
importance of the employee 
voice in our relentless pursuit  
of continuous improvement.
The DexcomGO site currently includes more than 200,000 training videos on a wide variety 
of topics, providing necessary resources for employees to grow in accord with their personal 
goals. The site also serves as a hub for our virtual and in-person sessions that align with the 
development of the six core competencies. Some of our popular, current course offerings 
include: emotional intelligence (EQ), self-leadership development, and strength deployment 
inventory (SDI) assessments for understanding motivation and conflict style.
Supporting Our Employees and Their Families 
Dexcom strives to provide choices and flexibility through comprehensive and competitive  
global benefits, retirement plans and wellbeing programs that support our employees and their 
families. We strive to offer consistent benefits across our global locations, including the following 
offerings for full-time employees in most of the countries in which we operate:Driving 
ResultsDemonstrating 
Self-AwarenessStrategic 
MindsetCollaborationEffective 
CommunicationTalent 
Development
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 9 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Retirement Savings:  
We offer Dexcom-funded retirement 
plans to help retired employees 
maintain a comfortable  
standard of living.
Employee Assistance Program:  
Our increasingly fast-paced work 
environment can make it tough 
to balance responsibilities at work 
and home at times. We have 
implemented a no-cost, 24/7 
employee assistance program that 
provides employees resources for 
improving communication, relationship 
counseling, coping with loneliness, 
understanding grief, dealing with stress, 
anxiety and depression, and crisis 
support. The program also offers work/
life resources such as debt counseling, 
legal assistance, and childcare and 
eldercare options.Recreation and Onsite Services:  
We also offer recreational sports and 
social groups globally to foster a culture 
of physical fitness, teambuilding, 
creativity, and social activity. We’ve 
facilitated interest groups related to 
softball, volleyball, bowling, cycling, 
running, board games, ping pong  
and more. 
Life/Death/Disability Insurance: 
We offer life/death and disabaility 
insurance to provide employees and 
their families with financial assistance 
should they become disabled,  
unable to work, or pass away.
*Note: Employee eligibility for certain non-salary benefits may be informed by and will follow local regulations and practices. 
In certain countries, this means we cover all full-time employees and certain part-time employees working more than a certain 
number of hours.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  10While the services and facilities at each location vary, they 
may include an onsite gym, instructor-led fitness classes, 
onsite services such as dry cleaning, hair salon, car wash, bike 
repair, and numerous wellness education-related programs 
throughout the year. We bring these types of services to the 
workplace, so employees have more time to spend with family 
and friends after work and on weekends.
In addition to these core global offerings, we continue to assess areas of improvement for our  
various global locations. As examples of this commitment, we’ve established the following:
Onsite Health Clinic – Manila: In our growing Philippines location, we offer a full-service, onsite clinic available to employees. 
This allows them to receive basic health care services without the inconvenience and disruption of an offsite appointment  
with a physician.
Paid Family Leave – U.S.: We noticed a gap in opportunities for child bonding and family care for our domestic employees, 
depending on the respective policies of their state. Therefore, we established a uniform and equitable paid family leave program 
nationwide. This supports employees across the United States who need to take time away from work to care for a covered 
family member, or bond with a newborn or newly placed child. Through the program, they have the means to do so while 
receiving a portion of their pay through wage replacement.
Paid Military Leave-U.S.: Our headquarters, San Diego, is home to the nation’s largest military concentration with more than 
150,000 active duty personnel in 2020. In addition to federal and state mandated military leave, Dexcom provides 100% pay 
for up to four weeks, in conjunction with military pay, for employees when called for military school attendance, annual field 
training, annual active duty training, and other short-term state or federal tours of active duty (deployment excluded).
We are also in the process of rolling out additional employee benefits, including: 
Education Assistance: We support employees who wish to continue their education to prepare for increased responsibilities 
and growth within their professional careers. In keeping with this philosophy, Dexcom intends to establish a reimbursement 
program for expenses incurred through approved institutions of learning.
Inspire Wellbeing: Our upcoming wellness program, Inspire, intends to help employees and their family members that desire 
to take control of their physical, emotional, and financial wellbeing. Through the Inspire platform employees can invite up to ten 
family members and friends to participate in healthy habits, challenges, education and more. Dexcom organizes company-wide 
steps challenges each year and team-based experiences.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 11 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Promoting Diversity and Inclusion: The distinct identities of our people and business partners are a source of strength 
and a key ingredient of our success.
Supporting Equal Employment Opportunity: In recruitment, training access, compensation, welfare, and internal mobility and 
career development, we approach each employee or job applicant – without regard to any of the grounds listed below or other 
characteristics protected by applicable law. We consider the skills, experience, and personal aptitude of our employees and any 
job applicant.
Zero-Tolerance Policy: We believe in the dignity of every human being and respect individual rights. We contribute to the 
protection of human rights through compliance with laws and regulations in the locations in which we operate. We are also 
committed to workforce diversity and maintain a zero-tolerance policy for discrimination and harassment, including on the 
following grounds:
Our zero-tolerance commitment is supported by training on a regular basis and is clearly detailed in our Code of Conduct.Building a Diverse Workforce: 
Dexcom is a global company and we strive to understand the cultures and customs that define the countries in which we operate. 
We foster a stimulating, creative, and nondiscriminatory workplace for all our employees and business partners.
We promote diversity, practice fairness, and treat everyone with respect and dignity. Accordingly, Dexcom is committed to:
Race
Color
National Origin
Reliigon
Sex
GenderGender Identity
Sexual Orientation
Age
Disability
Citizenship Status
Physical OrientationPhysical Appearance
Health or Medical Condition
Genetic Information
Political Opinions
Military or Veteran StatusDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  12THINK BIG
People with diabetes face unique challenges throughout their lives. Our efforts to understand 
their pain points go beyond listening, as we encourage all employees to think beyond their  limits—to explore what’s unprecedented, unpredictable, and unconventional. This vision comes to life with our simple core value: Think Big. 
This mindset led to an ambitious goal early in our history: What if we could eliminate the need 
for people with diabetes to assess their glucose levels with painful fingersticks? With the 2018 approval of our Dexcom G6 CGM system, we eliminated the need for customers to fingerstick
†  
to calibrate their CGM. Based on internal estimates, we believe that the Dexcom G6 has enabled people with diabetes to safely monitor glucose levels while foregoing more than 2 billion fingersticks since its launch in 2018 (see https://peaceoutfingerpricks.com/).
Our commitment to ‘big-picture’ thinking has not wavered since the launch of Dexcom G6. 
There remains a significant number of people with diabetes on intensive insulin therapy around the world who stand to benefit from our CGM technology. Therefore, we continue to assess efficient ways to drive access and extend the benefits of our technology to new populations. 
Diabetes represents one of the most pressing healthcare challenges in the world today.  
The increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes can lower the quality of peoples’ lives while rapidly increasing global healthcare costs.
†If your glucose alerts and readings from Dexcom G6 do not match your symptoms or expectations, 
use your blood glucose meter to make diabetes treatment decisions.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 13 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
As the statistics below demonstrate, it is truly a global epidemic that requires a commitment to innovative thinking:
Break the Epidemic Only around 6% of people with diabetes live a life free from diabetes-related complications.
Diabetes 100% 
of the estimated 463 million  
adults with diabetes
50% Diagnosed*
25% Receive Care12.5% Achieve 
Targets**6% Achieve Desired 
Outcomes  
Live a life free from diabetes-
related complications
*Actual rates of diagnosis, treatment, targets, and outcomes vary in different countries. **That is, recommended glucose levels. We believe the outcomes have not varied 
significantly since this framework was expounded by Hart JT, “Rule of halves: Implications of increasing diagnosis and reducing dropout for future workload  
and prescribing costs in primary care, “Brit J Gen Pract. 1992, 42: 116-119.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  14Access to Healthcare
Given the scope of the problem, even within intensive insulin-using populations alone,  
Dexcom has identified access to its CGM systems as a core element of its sustainable growth 
initiatives. Our Global Access team regularly engages with government and private payers, as well 
as certain regulatory bodies, advocating for the millions of people with diabetes around the world 
by demonstrating the economic and quality of life benefits associated with covering Dexcom 
CGM technologies. We also continue to evaluate partnerships and strategies to broaden access 
to our technology in a manner that serves all stakeholders of the company.
The following initiatives represent core elements of our current strategy to expand access to 
Dexcom CGM technologies around the world:
Reducing Barriers to Therapy
In the United States, we have proactively engaged payers with offers to lower cost 
of treatment in exchange for broader access to our CGM technology. 
We’ve advanced the following initiatives:
Break of the EpidemicEstimated Adults with Diabetes (Global)Annual Healthcare Expenditures 
(Global)
Sources: IDF Atlas, 9th Edition (2019). https://www.diabetesatlas.org/en/. American Diabetes Association, “Economic Costs of Diabetes in the U.S. in 2017.”>2x 4.2MHealthcare Expenditures: People with  
Diabetes vs. Those without Diabetes:Diabetes Related  
Deaths (2019)400M500M600M700M800M
2019 2030 20452019: 463 million 
(9.3% of population)2019: $760 Billion2030: $825 Billion2045: $845 Billion
2030: 578 million  
(10.2% of population)2045: 700 million  
(10.9% of population)
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 15 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Advocating for Interoperability
Through longstanding collaborations with leading insulin delivery companies, 
Dexcom is a leading supporter of patient choice and open architecture platforms. 
Our strategy is driven by the belief that no customer should be restricted from 
using our CGM based on their preferred method of insulin delivery. 
We continue to support device interoperability by maintaining an open 
architecture platform for developers and assessing options for additional 
collaborations with corporations and non-profit organizations.Pharmacy Access: We recognize that the pharmacy channel often offers a higher quality experience for Dexcom customers 
and prescribing clinicians. Dexcom customers can receive CGM supplies in as little as one or two days, compared to a process 
that can take multiple weeks through the durable medical equipment (“DME”) channel. As our preferred long-term sales 
channel, we have taken significant steps to open this streamlined pharmacy experience to our customer base.
Removing Upfront Barriers: Certain insurance providers have historically required documentation before providing coverage 
for CGM. At the cost of lower reimbursement to us, we are advocating for the removal of such requirements to reduce the 
administrative burden of accessing our product.
Access for People with Type 2 Diabetes on Insulin Therapy:  We have demonstrated significant clinical outcomes that 
document the value of Dexcom CGM to the type 2 intensive population§. Our Global Access team continues to work diligently 
to enable access for this sizable portion of people with diabetes.
Global Accessibility:  We have obtained marketing authorization for Dexcom CGM in greater than 40 countries and plan to 
continue to broaden our geographic presence around the world, including in regions that do not currently have access to 
leading technology to help manage diabetes.
§Beck RW, et al. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167:365–374. doi: 10.7326/M16-2855Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  16Expanding Manufacturing 
Since its launch, we have rapidly scaled Dexcom G6 manufacturing capacity. 
As the demand for Dexcom CGM continues to grow, our operations team has 
focused extensively on scaling additional capacity to enable further expansion of 
the markets that we serve. We believe that our product plays a significant role in 
addressing the diabetes epidemic, and we are working to establish the foundation 
to benefit more patients over the short and long-term future.
Designing Product for Scale
The commitment to expanding access requires thoughtful action throughout 
the organization. In order to meet our ambitious capacity expansion goals, our 
research and development and operations teams have collaborated extensively to 
adapt Dexcom G6 production and increase manufacturing yield. 
We have specifically designed our next generation Dexcom G7 CGM system with 
the potential to scale efficiently as we look to expand the use of Dexcom CGM 
system for diabetes management around the world. We look forward to the 
continued development of this system as a key initiative for our access efforts.
Demonstrating Clinical Outcomes
As we scale production capacity, we also work diligently to demonstrate and 
expand awareness of the benefits of our technology. In 2019, the publication of 
full 3-year results of the COMISAIR study** showed that people with diabetes 
on real-time CGM experienced on average more than a 20% increase to optimal 
glycemic levels, or Time in Range (TIR; 70-180 mg/dL). Cohorts using either 
insulin pumps or multiple daily injections achieved these results, supporting the 
use of CGM as a first-line defense. The increase to TIR equates to nearly five 
hours per day of better control, a substantial improvement to the health  
of the CGM user.
 
** Soupal J, et al. Diabetes Care. 2019. †To view a list of compatible smart devices, visit Dexcom.com/compatibilityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 17 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Environmental Impact
At Dexcom, thinking big also means committing to operate our business in a manner that is 
responsible to and protective of the environment. As a company at the forefront of continuous 
glucose monitoring technology, we embrace the opportunity to extend our commitment to all 
our stakeholders, suppliers and subcontractors. 
We are committed to reducing the environmental impacts from our operations and products, 
managing environmental risks, and pursuing sustainability initiatives. Our overarching 
environmental policy is to: “Respect and Protect the Environment”.
Conserving Natural Resources
Dexcom is committed to minimizing the consumption of natural resources globally through 
proactive monitoring and sustainability training for all Dexcom employees. Wherever feasible, 
we try to reduce energy and water consumption to minimize our environmental footprint, 
while continuing to deliver world-class solutions to our customers, caregivers, and healthcare 
providers.
Our energy conservation program includes the replacement of older equipment with more 
energy-efficient models and the design of energy and water conservation systems into  
new or remodeled facilities.  
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  18
Reducing Waste
On a global basis, Dexcom has been actively mapping the lifecycle of product waste at our 
facilities and has implemented programs to proactively reduce the amount of generated 
waste. Recycling and re-use initiatives have been initiated globally and include segregation 
systems to minimize waste and promote re-use.  
As our CGM systems continue to advance, we aspire to limit the need for incremental 
electronic equipment and thereby reduce waste volume for each user of our product. For 
example, although the receiver unit that accompanies our CGM system is still available for 
patient use and required in certain markets, our innovative software development teams 
have designed out the requirement for a stand-alone receiver and our programs allow for 
customers to use their existing, compatible† Apple or Android smartphones or watches to 
monitor their glucose levels in real time.  
Our packaging and research teams have undertaken initiatives to reduce product packaging 
waste in future product launches. We are striving to reduce product packaging for our  
broad-based major product launch, the Dexcom G7 CGM System, and believe that the system 
can reduce packaging waste by nearly 50% per unit. 
Other waste reduction initiatives have contributed to the reduction of our 
environmental footprint over the years and will continue under the supervision  
of our EHS operations team. 
The Environmental, Health, 
and Safety (EHS) operations 
team has a goal of zero landfill 
of hazardous and medical 
regulated wastes from our 
manufacturing operations and 
internal use. We measured our 
performance against this goal 
and met our objective in 2019.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 19 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Reducing Emissions and Effluents
Dexcom is working to establish environmental benchmarks for the global reduction of emissions 
at our facilities and strives to implement initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint. We are 
actively evaluating opportunities to reduce Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions from 
our manufacturing processes. We believe that our efforts to design and implement automated 
manufacturing processes will enable the reduction of VOC emissions even as we significantly 
scale our commercial operations.
Our efforts to reduce emissions extend beyond product design and manufacturing.  
We encourage and incentivize employees to use mass transit and provide a shuttle service 
between our San Diego locations to further reduce emissions from individual car trips.  
We have established procedures and programs to monitor and minimize effluents and a 
stormwater pollution prevention program to protect the waters and beaches in the regions in 
which we operate. Our Spill Prevention Containment and Countermeasure Plan (SPCC)  
is updated annually to ensure that our production activities are considerate of the communities  
in which we operate.  
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  20
Education, Monitoring and Improvement
The Dexcom EHS operations team trains employees globally on 
sustainability-driven best practices and procedures. The team 
maintains a portal where employees can access information on 
our EHS system, environmental and safety policies, and waste 
management and occupational health and safety programs  
can be accessed at any time. 
We also actively monitor all EHS programs and initiatives and work 
with regulatory agencies to align on applicable standards. In 2019, 
we launched a new global EHS enterprise system to monitor injury 
rates, EHS risk assessment and reduction programs, and regulatory 
compliance, and identify and prioritize EHS program goals to 
promote continuous improvement in our EHS performance.  
• Resourcing a dedicated department 
that oversees our environmental 
programs
• Establishing board oversight of our 
corporate social responsibility and 
sustainability initiatives
• Implementing practices that reduce 
and recycle manufacturing and 
packaging waste
• Initiating studies of volatile 
organic compound (VOC) use to 
reduce emissions through volume 
reduction and/or substitution with 
lower VOC materials
• Launching an EHS global enterprise 
system to develop meaningful 
metrics that track our progress 
against our operational goals.In line with our commitment 
to continuously improve our 
EHS program, we have recently 
undertaken the following efforts:
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 21 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
BE DEPENDABLE
Quality
Dexcom seeks to exemplify quality in all aspects of the organization. While our end goal is 
the production of the highest caliber CGM devices that empower people to take control of 
diabetes, achieving this goal requires an even broader approach. It requires us to foster a culture 
where every Dexcom employee understands their essential role in the design, testing, and 
manufacturing of our devices that are used by our customers. We emphasize this commitment in 
the core value, “Be Dependable.”
Dexcom features the following key elements in its approach to organization-wide quality:
• Education and Awareness: People are critical to ensuring high quality products. We require 
all new employees to receive training on the company’s quality policy and quality objectives. 
We provide continuing education and awareness to promote our quality culture and inform 
our employees about changes that have the potential to impact the quality of our products 
and the effectiveness of our quality policies. We also encourage our employees to continue 
their formal education and routinely benchmark against best in class companies. Together, 
these efforts support a holistic embrace of Dexcom quality standards.
• Quality Management System (QMS): We maintain a robust Quality Management System 
in compliance with applicable US and international regulatory requirements. This includes 
compliance with key standards such as the FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR) and 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 13485, a key international standard for 
medical devices to which we and our facilities are certified. We view our QMS as a foundation  
of sustainable business practices and a Dexcom core strength.
• Continuous Improvement: As a core element of our QMS, we undertake annual reviews of 
quality initiatives to ensure compliance with evolving standards and continual improvement 
of our processes and products. We enhanced our QMS by attaining certification to the 
globally recognized Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP). Dexcom supports the 
program’s goal of improving and oversight of global medical device production through a 
unified approach to auditing. With this new certification, Dexcom demonstrates compliance 
with regulatory requirements for Australia, Canada, Japan, and the United States.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  22Recent Initiatives
Every step of our development and manufacturing processes are intended to meet and exceed 
customer requirements. 
We deploy robust and global processes aimed at monitoring and continuously improving:
• Innovation and development processes
• Supplier processes
• Customer experience
In late November 2019, we experienced a server outage that impacted US users of our Follow 
app. Although our CGM technology and core app were generally unaffected, the outage 
impacted the ability of followers to monitor the glucose levels of their friends and family. With 
an understanding of the importance of dependability, we addressed the issue, listened to our 
customers, and set out on a course to improve. We acknowledged the need to strengthen 
lines of communication with our customers and quickly established a System Status Page that 
provides 24/7 updates on system functionality. We are also rolling out in-app communication  
for all users of the Follow app to allow real-time notifications of any system disruption.
We invest to ensure that our QMS is built for scale and efficiency. Recently, 
we have implemented global automated solutions to enhance several of 
the core aspects of our QMS, including complaint handling, corrective and 
preventative action (CAPA), employee training, manufacturing, and supplier 
and inventory controls.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 23 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Employee Health and Safety
Dexcom is committed to creating a safe and healthy workplace and integrates occupational 
health and safety into our business planning, equipment design, decision making and daily 
activities. We establish internal measures for our safety performance initiatives and strive for 
continuous improvement in the reductions of injury rates. 
Our EHS team built out a new communications system to enhance safety awareness, including 
an EHS Learning Center and safety intranet site, the launch of a global injury and safety concern 
reporting system, a new job hazard analysis program, and the implementation of safety standards 
for our new robotic manufacturing equipment. We continue to implement and expand these 
programs to further reduce the incidence of workplace injuries.
Through leadership commitment and investment of resources in support of workplace safety 
initiatives, our total US injury rate has consistently tracked below industry averages.
In addition, our EHS team has prioritized the scaling of both its office and industrial ergonomics 
programs. These initiatives include worker ergo-knowledge guides, enhanced training, an ergo-
break program and new global ergonomic furniture standards. All new and renovated Dexcom 
global office facilities include adjustable sit-stand desks and monitor arms, and manufacturing 
equipment is designed with, and built to, specified ergonomic and safety standards.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  24
Dexcom is committed to operating with the highest standards of ethics, as captured in the  
core value, “Serve with Integrity.” This commitment extends to all aspects of the organization, 
including: the safety and effectiveness of our products, the way we serve and empower our 
customers and employees, our focus on innovation as we seek to address issues of customer 
accessibility to our products, and the way we communicate our story to our stakeholders.  
While oversight of the company’s ethics and governance structure begins with the Board of 
Directors and Executive Leadership Team, Dexcom expects all employees to foster a culture  
of accountability in line with its Code of Conduct.SERVE WITH INTEGRITYDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 25 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Board of Directors
The Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team oversee the implementation  
and communication of company policies that constitute service with integrity. Given their 
engagement with and oversight of the company’s strategy, culture, and risk management, we 
maintain high expectations for our Board members. In addition to the roles described in the 
Corporate Governance Principles, our Board prioritizes the following:
Independence
We maintain a strong emphasis on director independence. Eight of our nine 
current directors are independent and all three of Dexcom’s standing committees 
(audit, compensation, and nominating / governance) are comprised exclusively of 
independent directors. We also have designated a Lead Independent Director as a 
core principle of governance in order to maintain effective independent oversight 
of the Executive Leadership Team.
Diversity
We believe that representation of the company’s diverse stakeholders is best 
achieved by a Board of Directors comprised of different genders, ethnicities, 
backgrounds and experiences. Our current Board consists of leading experts in 
endocrinology, internal medicine and digital health, as well as business leaders 
with financial, technical, legal and operational experience across healthcare, 
technology and consumer sectors.
Most recently, in 2019, Bridgette Heller joined the Board of Directors, bringing 
with her more than 35 years of global management experience at Fortune 
100 companies. We believe her proven track record of leadership and brand 
management in both consumer products and healthcare will be a great asset to 
Dexcom as we seek to expand use of our CGM technology and improve global 
health outcomes.Sustainability Oversight
In recognition of the unique role that we play as global corporate citizens, we 
added Board oversight of our corporate social responsibility and sustainability 
initiatives in 2019 by formally designating this responsibility to the Nominating and 
Governance Committee. The Nominating and Governance Committee Charter 
provides for annual review of material issues, risk mitigation, and company 
performance with respect to corporate social responsibility 
and sustainability.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  26Dexcom’s Compliance Program
Our Compliance Department promotes an organizational culture that encourages ethical 
conduct and adherence to applicable laws and regulations. The recently revised Code of 
Conduct, which is available in multiple languages, serves as the foundation for our program, 
providing a key resource for the development and accountability of our employee base.  
The Compliance Department also maintains several avenues that encourage employees to learn, 
speak up, and ask questions:
• Employee Training: All Dexcom employees are required to complete annual Compliance 
trainings, including training on our Code of Conduct and on applicable laws, regulations, 
and industry codes. This ensures that employees are equipped to meet or exceed our 
expectations for ethical business conduct. Employees can access Compliance training  
and applicable Compliance policies and procedures through our internally hosted  
compliance website.
• Multiple Compliance Reporting Resources: We promote a culture of ethics and integrity 
by welcoming questions and encouraging internal accountability. In addition to the internal 
compliance website, all Dexcom employees around the world can submit questions or file 
reports directly with any member of the Compliance Department, either through a dedicated 
Compliance email address, or anonymously through our third-party-hosted  
whistleblower hotline.
• Commitment to Non-Retaliation and Confidentiality: The Dexcom Compliance 
Department, in coordination with other relevant departments, investigates all reports of Code 
violations or unlawful activity. We also explicitly prohibit harassment and retaliation against 
anyone who seeks advice, raises a concern, reports misconduct, or provides information 
in an investigation.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
 27 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Employees help protect the privacy of personal data by following certain principles, including:
• Collecting and using the minimum amount of personal data necessary to achieve the 
business purposes for which the data was collected
• Keeping personal data only as long as necessary to achieve those purposes
• Sharing personal data only with individuals who have a legitimate need for it  
and are authorized to receive it
We are also committed to incorporating a privacy-by-design framework in our daily operations. 
This means that we proactively embed data privacy and protection principles into the design,  
operation, and management of all our products and systems. As we develop and maintain 
products and systems, we will continue to respect user privacy and keep our data collection 
practices open and transparent. 
In order to implement the principles above and maintain the trust of our customers, we have  
established a Personal Data Privacy Program that requires annual training for our employees.  
This training serves to ensure that Employees understand their obligations with respect  
to personal data. Data Privacy
Our customers, employees, healthcare providers, and many others entrust Dexcom with their 
personal data. We are committed to preserving the confidentiality, integrity, and availability  
of personal data throughout its life cycle, from creation through disposition.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  28In addition to the core initiatives above, the following documents contain key information  
with respect to our commitment to integrity:
• The Code of Conduct  also contains information with respect to:
• Conflict Minerals Policy
• Board of Directors Committee Charters:
• Corporate Governance Principles
• Stock Ownership Guidelines
• Clinical Research Program and Standards
Interactions with patients and healthcare providers
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
Political contributions
Diversity and inclusion in the workplace
Discrimination and harassment
Safety and health
Environmental sustainability
Animal welfare and testing
Nominating and Governance Committee
Audit Committee
Compensation CommitteeDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2020
  Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Dexcom, Inc. | Corporate Headquarters 
6340 Sequence Drive 
San Diego, CA 92121 
dexcom.comDEXCOM, INC. 
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
March 2020