1
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
DexCom, Inc.
Sustainability Report
March 2022A letter from our CEO
To Our Stakeholders,
Dexcom’s commitment to our mission—empowering people to take 
control of diabetes—remains unwavering. And with the International 
Diabetes Federation now estimating global diabetes prevalence of more 
than 537 million people, our mission has never been more important. 
Year after year, our customers report that real-time continuous glucose 
monitoring (CGM) technology eases the physical and emotional burden 
of diabetes – both for people with diabetes and for their loved ones. 
Our mission is underpinned by four values that drive our day-to-day 
operations: Listen, Think Big, Be Dependable, and Serve with Integrity. 
These values are embedded in our DNA and continue to guide and shape 
not just our business decisions, but also our sustainability story.
I’m proud to report that in 2021, the Wall Street Journal recognized 
Dexcom for the greatest gain in the Management Top 250 ranking for 
social responsibility. We are building on this momentum by cultivating 
an environment that encourages discussion, education, and creative 
thinking about how we can maximize our impact.
I’m also proud of the progress we’ve made in our sustainability reporting. 
This year, our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure 
includes our first Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
index. In the coming years, we look forward to advancing both our 
sustainability story and how we share it with stakeholders.
In the meantime, please enjoy Dexcom’s Annual Sustainability Report, 
which encapsulates our commitment to making a positive, lasting impact 
on the world we share.
Kevin Sayer
Chairman, President & CEO
4Table of  
ContentsWe use our Sustainability Report to share how we are managing our 
sustainability goals, as well as to respond to a broad set of stakeholder 
expectations and inquiries we receive throughout the year.
This report covers fiscal year results for the period ended December 31, 2021, unless 
otherwise noted. Data includes our operations around the world, unless otherwise stated. 
Some data has been rounded. Monetary figures are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. 
Dexcom undertakes no responsibility to update this information after the date of this report.Listen
Dexcom Warriors
Active participation within the diabetes community
Offering patient choice
Data-driven personalized communications
Listening to our employees
Investing in our talent
Intentionally evolving the employee experience
Supporting our employees and their families
Our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion1
3
5
7
7
9
9
11
12
13
Think big
Access to healthcare
Commitment to a sustainable future
Environmental strategies, policies, and practices
Climate change
Protecting water resources
Energy efficiency
Product stewardship
Waste reduction initiatives
Community engagement
Health and safety
COVID-19 response19
22
26
26
27
29
29
30
30
32
32
34
Be dependable
Education and awareness
Quality Management Systems (QMS)
Continuous improvement35
37
37
38
Serve with integrity
Board of directors
Dexcom compliance program
Data privacy
Appendix
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index39
41
42
43
45
471
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Listen
The pursuit of continuous improvement and 
impact drives our global efforts at Dexcom. 
We pay attention to the evolving needs of our customers, healthcare providers, 
employees, researchers, payers, and broader set of stakeholders to exemplify 
“Listen,” the first of our four core values.
1
2The following initiatives represent how we actively participate in the diabetes 
community and enable Dexcom employees to flourish. These include some of the 
strategic initiatives and product developments that we have pursued in response to 
stakeholder feedback.
Dexcom Warriors
Active participation within the diabetes community
Offering patient choice
Data-driven, personalized communications
Listening to our employeesInvesting in our talent
Intentionally evolving the employee experience
Supporting our employees and their families
Our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion
Listening to our customers
While Dexcom has built its reputation 
by designing, manufacturing, and selling 
continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) 
technology that surpasses and redefines 
industry standards, we also understand 
that the customer experience involves 
more than providing data and insights.
Beyond tangible products, the customer experience  
also encompasses a greater understanding of, and 
an active response to, our stakeholders’ underlying 
motivations. With this in mind, we have structured our 
business to listen to our customers and address their 
needs and interests.
01 06
02
0307
04
0508
09
3
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Zac Harmon is a travelling blues musician and artist, who also happens 
to have type 2 diabetes. Before Dexcom, it was hard for him to stay in 
range during his performances. He credits Dexcom for allowing him 
the peace of mind he needs to put on a world-class show every 
time he’s on stage.
Zac is passionate about sharing his experience managing his 
diabetes. At every show, he never hesitates to explain how 
instrumental his Dexcom G6 has been in allowing him to live 
life on his terms. He knows many people with diabetes suffer 
in silence, and he enjoys encouraging others to try Dexcom in 
order to live without the restraints of diabetes just like 
he does.
Dexcom has basically changed my life. 
For the first time I feel like I am in control 
and the disease is not in control of me.
Zac Harmon
Musician, 64 | Mansfield, TX
Age at diagnosis: 45
Dexcom Warriors 
We believe that providing a forum for our 
customers’ voices is one of the best ways to 
learn from the diabetes community.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Listen4
Pietro Marsala
Pilot, 31
Scottsdale, AZ
Age at diagnosis: 22Pietro Marsala has always been driven by his lifelong dream of becoming a pilot. However, 
aspiring pilots with diabetes have always had to realize a different dream - one that didn’t 
involve flying for the airlines - until Pietro decided to change the status quo.
Up until recently, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) prohibited people with 
diabetes from flying commercial airlines due to safety regulations. When Pietro was 
diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at age 22, he knew the odds were against him but 
he wasn’t going to let it hold him back from his true calling. Pietro had to present 
substantial evidence to the FAA to show that he was more than qualified to fly 
safely, and he used his Dexcom Clarity reports to prove that he was always in 
control of his glucose levels, even at 30,000 feet.
Pietro became one of the first pilots with type 1 diabetes to fly commercially 
in the United States, and he is currently pursuing his passion every day with 
American Eagle Airlines.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Our Warriors are individuals with type 1 and type 2 diabetes who have raised 
their hands, ready and eager to help increase awareness of diabetes, motivate 
others, and advocate for Dexcom. Warriors include social media influencers, 
athletes, celebrities, and ‘everyday’ people—parents, students, community 
leaders, and more.
The program revolves around the inspirational stories that define each of 
our Warriors. By providing a platform for the incredible people who use our 
technology every day, we hope to educate the diabetes community and spark 
additional awareness of the benefits of using our CGM system to help 
manage diabetes.
Dexcom CGM has helped me achieve 
my goal of flying professionally. I try to 
encourage others around me to never give 
up and continue pursuing their dreams.
Pietro Marsala
Pilot, 31 | Scottsdale, AZ
Age at diagnosis: 22
In 2015, we established 
the Dexcom Warriors 
program and quickly 
expanded it from  
35 to more than  
15,000 Warriors at  
the end of 2021.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Listen5
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Nick Jonas
Singer, Songwriter, Actor, Producer, 
and Philanthropist
Patti LaBelle
Singer, Songwriter
Active participation within  
the diabetes community
We listen to the feedback of the diabetes 
community to understand how we can best 
advocate for their needs. 
This commitment includes our direct support of non-profit organizations 
and clinical research, as well as our active encouragement of Dexcom 
employee participation within the diabetes community. Below are some of 
the highlights of our recent efforts:
In partnership with several diabetes advocacy organizations, Dexcom launched the 
“Global Movement for Time in Range” in 2021. Time in range is a health metric that 
reflects the percentage of time that an individual stays within their target glucose 
range. Research has shown this is a more comprehensive metric for both diagnosing 
and managing diabetes relative to A1C, which is the traditional reading used to indicate 
glycemic control. This campaign is designed to broaden awareness around time in range 
and advocate for this metric to become the standard of care in diabetes management. 
This effort is supported by Beyond Type 1, Children with Diabetes, College Diabetes 
Network, JDRF International, and Taking Control of Your Diabetes. Partnering with leading diabetes advocates
To support National Diabetes Awareness Month, Dexcom and 
The Global Movement launched a month-long awareness 
campaign. The mission of this campaign was to help  
the diabetes community feel more seen and heard.  
This initiative was headlined by the efforts of two  
Dexcom Warriors – Nick Jonas and Patti LaBelle.  
Mr. Jonas leveraged his social media platform to  
share individuals’ stories and encourage  
discussion around living with diabetes.  
Ms. LaBelle spoke to Congress to share her 
journey with diabetes and advocate 
for better access to care for people 
with type 2 diabetes, especially in 
communities of color.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Listen
6
Encouraging our employees to give back to the community:
We actively encourage employee support of the JDRF One Walk 
fundraiser and event in San Diego, a 3K and 5K walk supporting 
JDRF’s ongoing research effort for the type 1 diabetes community. 
In 2021, more than 800 employees embraced the virtual walk format 
and raised $30,000 in support of this great cause.
Employee-funded grants have provided additional 
support to the diabetes community, offering 
assistance to the following organizations in recent 
years: American Youth Understanding Diabetes 
Abroad (AYUDA), College Diabetes Network (CDN), 
DiabetesSisters, and Riding on Insulin.
In 2021, Dexcom’s Grants Committee awarded over $700,000 in 
educational, scientific, and charitable grants to over 30 organizations. 
These grants were awarded to nonprofit organizations, academic and 
research institutions, and other philanthropic organizations, consistent 
with Dexcom’s values and mission to empower people to take control 
of diabetes. Some recipients of Dexcom Grants include Advanced 
Technologies and Treatments for Diabetes (ATTD), the American 
Association of Clinical Endocrinology (AACE), the Cardiometabolic 
Health Congress (CMHC), the International Hypoglycaemia Study Group 
(IHSG), the Perth and Queensland Children’s Hospitals, and Taking 
Control of Your Diabetes.
Enabling ongoing research 
and innovation
We maintain an active research program that not 
only manages our clinical efforts but supports 
Investigator Initiated Studies, industry-sponsored 
studies using Dexcom CGM systems, as well as 
studies conducted by non-profits or research 
consortiums. For additional information on our 
ongoing research support as well as our publicly 
available diabetes education tools, please visit our 
healthcare provider site.52peer-reviewed 
journal articlesIn 2021, Dexcom clinical scientists wrote or 
supported more than
which advanced the science literature  
about diabetes technology.
In 2021, we helped more than
250clinical trials 
worldwide
in hospitals, specialist outpatient clinics, and 
community settings.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Listen7
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Offering patient choice
Therefore, we have prioritized integrating our CGM technology with 
multiple third-party insulin delivery options and apps. These partnerships 
allow our customers to simplify their treatment by choosing their 
preferred insulin pumps or insulin pens.We recognize the value  
of patient choice in  
diabetes technology.
Just like fingersticks, gone are the 
days of one-size-fits-all customer 
messaging. Instead, today’s customers 
expect personalized insights based on 
their data. 
In 2021, Dexcom introduced data-driven, personalized 
communications to drive customer engagement, product 
utilization, intercept product issues, and boost retention. 
The emails along this personalized journey are positioned 
at key lifecycle stages and utilize first-party behavioral data 
from the Dexcom Analytics Platform. Data-driven, 
personalized 
communications
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Listen8
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Hey Siri feature
Dexcom released the “Hey Siri” 
feature making it possible for 
Dexcom G6 iOS app users to use 
their voice to hear and view their 
glucose and trend data simply by 
asking Siri. 
This feature increases the convenience of 
managing diabetes by reducing steps to access 
CGM data. Users set up a custom phrase such as 
“Hey Siri, what’s my glucose?” that activates Siri  
to recite a user’s glucose and trend data while 
displaying that information directly on their lock 
screen. The voice-activated feature is especially 
useful for visually impaired customers who benefit 
from the audible alternative.
A 2021 study released by Diabetes Technology and Therapeutics recognized this benefit by stating,
“Instant accessibility to glucose levels on CGM may decrease the 
constant supervision of visually impaired patients on intensive 
insulin therapy to caregivers and may decrease the response time 
for hypoglycemia.”*
Dexcom G6 is the first and only real-time CGM that offers a voice-activated feature for glucose data that 
allows visually impaired patients to more easily access their glucose levels. 
Hey Siri, what’s my glu cose?*https://www.dexcom.com/dexcom-follow 
Listen
Intercepting product issues can help decrease tech support 
calls while increasing customer product satisfaction.  
For example, our ‘frequent signal loss email’ targets users 
with greater than usual signal loss events over the last  
30 days. This communication provides timely CGM 
product support and help center tips, all based on a 
customer’s frequent pattern of signal loss. The goal is to 
educate the customer on how to optimize their smart 
device settings and provide tips to avoid future signal loss. Another important effort involves driving the adoption of 
our Dexcom Share and Follow feature. This personalized 
email targets Dexcom G6 customers who do not use our 
product’s Share/Follow feature and encourages them to 
invite their first Follower. It brings awareness to the  
quality-of-life benefits of Share and remote monitoring, 
which can help improve A1C, time in range, sleep, and 
peace of mind for customers and their loved ones.* 
*Akturk HK, 20219
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Investing in  
our talent
Our global organization is in a 
state of continued evolution.
Our success as individuals and as a company is 
strengthened when leadership at all levels nurtures 
a positive, inclusive, engaging culture rooted in the 
growth and development of our employees. 
To support the personal and professional growth 
of our workforce, we have built an extensive library 
of development offerings to empower employees 
at all levels to advance their skill sets and knowledge 
base. Because there is no one-size-fits-all approach 
to career development, we continue to evolve our 
curriculum to meet the needs of our 
diverse workforce. To foster a culture that values 
each person’s unique skill sets 
and continue to attract—and 
retain—top talent throughout 
the organization, we must 
continue to listen to the unique 
needs of our employees. Listening to our 
employees
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Listen10
In addition to live, interactive 
educational experiences, each 
employee has unlimited access 
to LinkedIn Learning, which 
offers more than
13,000
courses designed to support 
career advancement. 
November 2021 brought an 
exciting milestone for our 
organization - the Dexcom 
Philippines team was awarded the
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
We will continue to foster a culture of 
continuous education and design innovative 
learning experiences to support employee 
growth across the organization.In 2021, more than one-third of our 
employees used LinkedIn Learning to assist 
in their professional development. We plan 
to increase the utilization of this platform in 
2022 by embedding videos and courses in 
learning initiatives, encouraging leader and 
peer recommendations, and using targeted 
marketing of this resource throughout 
the organization.Investors In 
People (IIP) Silver 
Certification.
In a survey taken as part of the certification 
process, employees highlighted “Living the 
Organization’s Values & Behaviors,” “Delivering 
Continuous Improvement,” and “Creating 
Sustainable Success” as the three areas that 
make Dexcom an exceptional place to work. 
The Philippines team will continue to prioritize 
employee development as they progress  
their IIP journey in anticipation of the  
re-certification process in 2024.
Particularly, as we continue to function in a hybrid work environment, 
we will be thoughtful and creative in building offerings that promote 
development across the organization, regardless of each employee’s 
level or location.
10
Listen11
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
As the COVID-19 pandemic has altered our traditional perception of the workplace,  
we plan to continue listening and co-creating our environment and experience together.
By engaging the employee voice to help shape our future workplace, we can empower our 
employees to do their best mission-driven work. 
Intentionally evolving  
the employee experience
Dexcom employs a diverse group of leaders, innovators, and creators 
that find common ground in our mission: to empower people to take 
control of diabetes. But we are also individuals with deep personal 
aspirations and unique working styles, each individually adapting to a 
rapidly changing workplace. 
As the pandemic continued to produce unpredictability and anxiety, we encouraged our leaders to check-in frequently 
to gauge the wellbeing of their teams. We also surveyed employees to better understand their experience working in 
this new environment. Lastly, we leveraged this feedback to develop a framework for Hybrid Workplace Effectiveness at 
Dexcom. By listening to our employees, we can create a dynamic workplace that will foster productivity while promoting 
work-life balance and connection across the organization. 
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
Think big
Be dependable
Listen
We’re listening
Each year, we reinforce our commitment to our people by 
offering an engagement survey titled “We’re Listening.” In 
2021, 82% of our global workforce completed the survey and 
we received over 5,000 unique comments. This encouraging 
result demonstrates the importance of the employee voice in 
our relentless pursuit of continuous improvement. While the 
response was broadly favorable, this survey also importantly 
informs us of areas not meeting our high expectations. Our goal 
is to create a world-class working environment, and we use 
these insights to create action plans to continuously elevate the 
employee experience.82%completed the 
survey in 2021
5,000unique 
comments
89%”I am proud to work 
for Dexcom”
87%”I can see a clear link 
between my work and 
Dexcom’s mission”12
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Employee Assistance Program
We have implemented a no-cost, 24/7 employee 
assistance program that provides employees resources 
for improving communication, relationship counseling, 
coping with loneliness, understanding grief, dealing with 
stress, anxiety and depression, and crisis support.  
The program also offers work/life resources such as  
debt counseling, legal assistance, and childcare and 
eldercare options.
Educational Assistance
We support employees who wish to continue their 
education to prepare for increased responsibilities and 
growth within their professional careers. In keeping with 
this philosophy, Dexcom established a reimbursement 
program for certain expenses incurred through approved 
institutions of learning.Inspire Wellbeing
Our wellness program, Inspire, intends to help employees 
and their families that desire to take control of their 
physical, emotional, and financial wellbeing. Through 
the Inspire platform, employees can invite up to ten 
family members and friends to participate in healthy 
habits, challenges, educational opportunities, and more. 
Additionally, Dexcom organizes company-wide steps 
challenges each year.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)
We provide U.S. and Canadian employees the opportunity 
to become shareholders of Dexcom through our 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Our ESPP allows 
individuals to purchase Dexcom stock at a discount to 
market value. This enables our employees to share in the 
growth of our company, and further aligns our employee 
and shareholder interests.
Level2
We offer our employees the choice of several health plans 
including the Level2 program through UnitedHealthcare. 
Level2 is a health plan designed specifically to support 
individuals with type 2 diabetes. This forward-thinking 
program provides participants a Dexcom CGM, an activity 
tracker, and ongoing coaching to encourage greater 
health outcomes. By providing insights that can drive 
behavioral changes, Level2’s goal is to help individuals 
reduce their reliance on medications, lose weight, and 
improve their A1C levels.
*Employee eligibility for certain non-salary benefits may be informed by and will follow local regulations and practices. In certain countries, this means we 
cover all full-time employees and certain part-time employees working more than a certain number of hours.
We endeavor to offer consistent benefits across our global locations, including the 
following offerings for full-time employees in most of the countries in which we operate:Supporting our  
employees and their families*
Dexcom strives to provide choices and flexibility through comprehensive 
and competitive global benefits, retirement plans, and wellbeing 
programs that support our employees and their families. 
Retirement Savings
We offer Dexcom-funded retirement plans in each 
country across the globe to help retired employees 
maintain a comfortable standard of living.
Life/Death and Disability Insurance
We offer life/death and disability insurance to provide 
employees and their families with financial assistance, 
should they become disabled, unable to work, or 
pass away.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Listen13
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
In addition to these core global offerings, we continue to assess areas 
of improvement for our various global locations. As examples of this 
commitment, we have established the following:
Onsite Health Clinic
MANILA
In our growing Philippines location, 
we offer a full-service, onsite 
clinic available to employees. This 
clinic allows them to receive basic 
health care services without the 
inconvenience and disruption of an 
offsite appointment with a physician.Paid Family Leave
U.S.
We noticed a gap in opportunities for 
child bonding and family care for our 
domestic employees, depending on 
the respective policies of their state. 
So, we established a uniform and 
equitable paid family leave program 
nationwide. This supports employees 
across the United States who need 
to take time away from work to 
care for a covered family member, 
or bond with a newborn, or newly 
placed child. Through the program, 
they have the means to do so while 
receiving a portion of their pay 
through wage replacement.Paid Military Leave
U.S.
Our headquarters, San Diego, is 
home to the nation’s largest military 
concentration with more than 
100,000 active-duty personnel in 
2021. In addition to federal and state 
mandated military leave, Dexcom 
provides 100% pay for up to four 
weeks, in conjunction with military 
pay, for employees who are called for 
military school attendance, annual 
field training, annual active-duty 
training, and/or other short-term 
state or federal tours of active duty 
(deployment excluded).
Our commitment to diversity, 
equity, and inclusion (DEI)
At Dexcom, we foster an inclusive workplace to 
encourage diversity of thought, culture, 
and background. 
We strive to enable employees to create an environment where diverse 
perspectives are voiced and heard. Cultivating inclusive employee culture is a 
foundational element of delivering world-class customer experiences for our 
diverse CGM users and stakeholders. 
2020 was a defining year for us with the initiation of our foundational Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) activities. In 2021, we further advanced our DEI 
efforts through investment and an emphasis on building a long-term culture 
of inclusivity through conversation, educational programs, internal talent 
development, and talent acquisition.
Listen14
Kevin Sayer
Chairman, President & CEO
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
“Although we have steadily increased the number of women and minorities on our 
Board, at our Senior Leadership levels, and throughout our organization, it’s clear 
we are only at the beginning of this important journey to create a more inclusive 
work environment and to set diversity goals that facilitate lasting change.”
“Having a positive impact on society was another [one] of your higher scores 
in the survey, the highest in fact. It is not only what you do as a business 
that contributes to that, we think, but also your CSR (corporate social 
responsibility) activities, and your diversity and inclusion strategy. We loved 
the energy and commitment of the leaders of the ERGs (employee resource 
groups), and the difference they make to people’s wellbeing and their lives.”
Excerpt from the 2021 Investors in People  
Certification findings for Dexcom PhilippinesAdvancing our  
foundational diversity,  
equity, and inclusion efforts
Our journey to create a more diverse, equitable, and 
inclusive workplace is ongoing. We are proud of our 
progress in 2021, and the external recognition that we 
received by Forbes and Investors In People (IIP), including:#66
Forbes Best in 
State Employer 
California#66
Forbes Best 
Employers for 
Diversity
Silver
Investors In People 
(IIP) Certification#178
Forbes Best 
Employers for 
Women
Listen15
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
We engage senior leaders to create an inclusive workplace that 
unlocks employees’ best work
Established diversity, equity, and inclusion as a 
corporate objective in 2021 under our goal to 
evolve the employee experience.
Participated in discovery sessions to support a 
customized internal DEI training.
Assembled for a working meeting dedicated  
to DEI, reviewing year-over-year DEI data 
trends and progress and refined the Dexcom 
DEI roadmap.Rolled out a diversity snapshot 
data tool for leaders to establish a baseline 
understanding of the diversity of their teams 
and effectiveness of DEI efforts over time. 
In 2022, managers will receive metrics to 
assess the diversity of new hires and turnover 
in their organizations. 
Launched the Dexcom Diversity Dialogue series to explore what we can do in our own 
spheres of influence to promote DEI here at Dexcom. 
Featured Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum, an expert on the 
psychology of racism and national bestselling author.Hosted Dr. Bill Polonsky, Associate Clinical Professor in 
Psychiatry at the University of California San Diego and 
certified diabetes educator, to discuss the intersection 
of mental health and diabetes in recognition of National 
Diabetes Awareness Month.Included a DEI index in our annual employee 
experience survey to track the employee 
perspective of our efforts on diversity, equity, 
inclusion, accessibility, and belonging.
Expanded support of our DEI initiatives by growing our 
team under the leadership of our Vice President of Talent 
and Diversity.
Launched DEI Foundations for People Leaders in the summer 
of 2021, an interactive training for leaders in each of Dexcom’s 
global locations. To date, more than 70% of our directors and 
above leaders have completed this training.
Plan to launch our foundational DEI training program 
to all employees in 2022. The First Dexcom Diversity Dialogue A Conversation Around Mental Health and Diabetes01 04
02
03 05
We continue to 
build capabilities 
and invest in global 
DEI development
Listen16
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
We promote DEI through core talent processes and programs to 
advance equity: 
Outreach for the 2021 program included 
sponsoring and/or partnering with the following 
university student groups or events: We include discussion of function-specific DEI strengths 
and opportunities in annual talent planning reviews.We launched development programs in 2022 aimed at 
fostering a diverse leadership pipeline. 
47%Ethnically diverse students 
accounted for
of our internship class.Doubled
the number of women and 
ethnically diverse participants in 
our Dexcom Internship Program 
in 2021.Handshake & National College Expo: 
Black College Expo, LatinX College Expo, STEAM
University of California San Diego - Society of Hispanic 
Professional Engineers: Professional Evening with Industry
San Diego State University - National Society of Black 
Engineers: Giving Opportunity
Oregon State University: Electrical Engineering and  
Computer Science (EECS) Networking Night
Increased investment in our 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Leadership Council (DLC) and 
Employee Resource Groups (ERG): 
• Evolved the DLC as a means for leaders to work closely to 
advance the broader DEI strategy across the organization.  
The DLC is co-Chaired by the Vice President of Talent & Diversity 
and another senior leader. All other DLC members are accepted 
through nomination and commit to an 18-month term and 
sponsoring an employee resource group (ERG). 
• Offer more than 20 Dexcom employee resource groups  
globally that bring together individuals with common interests  
or experiences, build connections, and amplify the voices of  
our employees. 
16
Listen17
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
ABLE 
Dexcom Disability 
Resource Group
LatinX
Latinas and Latinos
DAPI
Dexcom Asian and 
Pacific Islander NetworkDAAN
Dexcom African 
American Network
PRIDE
LGBTQ+
Faith @ Dexcom
Faith-based 
employeesWIN+
Women’s Initiative 
Network
Families @ Dexcom  
Parents and 
caregiversVeterans @ Dexcom  
Veterans
Green Team 
Environmentally 
consciousYANA
You Are Not AloneGrayCom 
Seniors
Luzvimin
Supporting inclusivity and 
empowerment that reflects the 
different regional cultures of 
the PhilippinesNEWMIES
New and  
expecting parents
The Unicorns
LGBTQ+
SAFE
Support for employees 
experiencing abuse in different 
contexts
People with  
Disabilities
Raising awareness of the abilities 
of people with disabilitiesElderly Care  
and the Sick
Support for employees caring 
for family members
Interfaith
Faith-based employees
Seniors
Senior working 
professionals
What is an Employee 
Resource Group? 
ERGs are voluntary, employee-led 
groups that foster a diverse,  
inclusive workplace.
The groups offer opportunities  
to network and socialize, work  
on professional development,  
raise awareness of relevant issues, 
and more.
International 
(Manila based)
17
Listen
US
Diabetes United
Dexcom Employees with 
Diabetes Resource Group18
We closed 2021 with the 
following approximate 
representation across our 
full-time workforce.
In recognizing the value 
of greater transparency 
to our key stakeholders, 
we are also expanding our 
internal reporting to reflect 
our efforts to drive greater 
diversity in our global 
workforce. Country Global Women
United States 72 (33%)
Non-United States (OUS) 14 (33%)
Grand Total 86 (33%)62% (2,800)
Ethnically Diverse (US Only)
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
We initiated targeted giving and spending efforts that incorporated the 
voice of our employees, including:
Partnered with our Dexcom Asian and Pacific Islander 
Network to donate $250,000 to Stop AAPI HATE. 
This followed the uptick in violence against Asian-Americans in 
2021, most notably brought to national attention following the 
murder of eight individuals, six of whom were Asian women, 
at Asian-owned businesses in Atlanta in March 2021.Sponsored San Diego Pride with a 
financial contribution on behalf of 
our PRIDE ERG.
Sponsored the People of Color Living 
with Diabetes Virtual Summit with 
a financial contribution on behalf 
of the Dexcom African American 
Network (DAAN) ERG.
We continue to weave DEI into our broader business and products by:
• Spending more than $400M on products and services from small business suppliers in 2021, 10% of which came 
from women-owned small businesses. In addition, the process for diversifying our supply chain has been enhanced 
through our Supplier Portal on the (Dexcom Supplier Website), as well as through participation in virtual small 
business expos.
• Sponsored events for professional advocacy organizations, including Veterans in Business, Diversity Alliance for 
Science, and the San Diego Small Business Expo.
*Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Asian, American Indian/Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, Two or more 
races. All US Dexcom employees (includes manufacturing), self-reported.Country Female Male Grand Total
United States 2,000 (44%) 2,500 (56%) 4,500
Non-United States (OUS) 1,000 (56%) 800 (44%) 1,800
Grand Total 3,000 (48%) 3,300 (52%) 6,300
Director and Above Leadership Representation
*All data as of 12/21
We look forward to updating you as we progress with our DEI initiatives and strengthen our global workforce.
Listen19
Think big
People with diabetes face unique challenges 
throughout their lives. 
Our efforts to understand their pain points go beyond listening, as we 
encourage all employees to think beyond their limits—to explore unprecedented 
and unconventional solutions. This vision comes to life with our simple core 
value: “Think Big.”
20
This mindset led to an ambitious 
goal early in our history:  
What if we could eliminate the 
need for people with diabetes  
to assess their glucose levels 
with painful fingersticks?
With the 2018 approval of our Dexcom G6 Continuous Glucose 
Monitoring (CGM) system, we eliminated the need for customers to 
fingerstick* to calibrate their CGM. Based on internal estimates, we 
believe that the Dexcom G6 has enabled people with diabetes to safely 
monitor glucose levels while foregoing more than 11 billion fingersticks 
since its launch in 2018.
Our commitment to ‘big-picture’ thinking is core to our company’s DNA. 
There remains a significant number of people with diabetes around the 
world who stand to benefit from our CGM technology, including those 
who manage their diabetes using intensive insulin therapy and those 
who do not. Therefore, we continue to enhance our product offerings, 
assess efficient ways to drive access, and extend the benefits of our 
technology to new populations. 
Waste reduction initiatives08
Climate change04Access to healthcare01
Community engagement09
Protecting water resources05Product stewardship07
Environmental strategies, policies, and practices03
COVID-19 response11Commitment to a sustainable future02
Energy efficiency 06Health and safety10* If your glucose alerts and readings from Dexcom G6 do not match your symptoms  
or expectations, use your blood glucose meter to make diabetes treatment decisions.
Think big
21
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Diabetes Diagnosis 
and Cost
Adults (aged 20-79) with 
Diabetes Globally
Global Diabetes 
Related Health 
Expenditures
USD 
966b
2021USD 
760b
+27%  
increase  
Past 2 Years2019151m  
in 2000537m  
in 2021463m  
in 2019783m  
in 2045E
>2x 6.7 million
U.S. Healthcare Expenditures:  
People with Diabetes vs.  
Those without DiabetesDiabetes related deaths 2021As the statistics below demonstrate, it is truly a global epidemic  
that requires a commitment to innovative thinking:
Sources: IDF Atlas, 10th Edition (2021). https://www.diabetesatlas.org/en/. American Diabetes Association, “ Economic Costs of Diabetes in the U.S. in 2017 .”Diabetes represents one 
of the most pressing 
healthcare challenges in 
the world today.
The increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes can lower the quality of 
individuals’ lives while rapidly increasing global healthcare costs. 
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Think big22
The following initiatives represent core elements of our current strategy to expand access to 
Dexcom CGM technologies around the world:
Reducing Barriers 
to Therapy
Removing Upfront Barriers:   
Certain insurance providers have historically required documentation before 
providing coverage for CGM products. We are advocating for removing such 
requirements to reduce the administrative burden of accessing our product, even at 
the cost of lower reimbursement for Dexcom.
Similarly, in certain reimbursed international markets, we found access being 
constrained by administrative hurdles. In response, we committed to proactively 
lowering our prices in those markets in return for the removal of impediments 
limiting customer access. By our estimate, we increased or improved access for 
nearly 1 million individuals in 2021 through these efforts.Pharmacy Access:   
We recognize that the pharmacy channel often offers a higher quality experience for 
Dexcom customers and prescribing clinicians. Dexcom customers can receive CGM 
supplies in as few as one or two days, compared to a process that can take multiple 
weeks through the durable medical equipment (DME) channel. As our preferred 
long-term sales channel, we have taken significant steps to open this streamlined 
pharmacy experience to our customer base. Nearly 70% of Dexcom customers who 
receive supplies through the pharmacy channel pay less than $60 per month and 
one-third have zero-out-of-pocket costs.* 
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Access to healthcare
As a result, our Global Access team regularly engages with government and private payers and certain regulatory bodies 
to advocate for the millions of people with diabetes worldwide by demonstrating the economic and quality-of-life 
benefits associated with covering Dexcom CGM technologies. We also continue to evaluate partnerships and strategies 
to broaden access to our technology to serve all stakeholders of the company.
In the U.S., we have proactively engaged payers with offers to lower 
the cost of treatment in exchange for broader access to our CGM 
technology. As a result, we’ve advanced the following initiatives:
* IQVIA, data on file, July 2020.Given the scope of the global burden of diabetes, Dexcom has 
identified that facilitating access to its CGM systems is a core element 
of our sustainable growth initiatives. 
Think big
2223
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Access for type 2 customers not on mealtime insulin:   
We are working to further expand coverage for the type 2 population who are not 
on mealtime insulin. Our MOBILE trial was published in The Journal of American 
Medical Association (JAMA) in 2021 and demonstrated the effectiveness of CGM in 
type 2 individuals using basal insulin, but not prandial insulin.2 Importantly, this study 
evaluated a racially and socioeconomically diverse population treated in primary care 
practices to best reflect a real-world scenario. This group experienced a meaningful 
improvement in glycemic control over the course of the trial. 
In recognition of these outcomes, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) 
acknowledged the benefit of real-time CGM usage for the basal-only population 
for the first time in their updated 2022 Standards of Care in Diabetes.3 This 
recommendation further validates our belief that there should be CGM access for 
all people using insulin. We will continue to advocate for broader access for type 2 
individuals and familiarize payers with the health outcomes demonstrated in studies 
of this population.
Access for Vulnerable Populations:   
Our Global Access team advocates for expanded CGM coverage for low-income 
populations through state Medicaid programs. Since late 2018, we have advanced 
coverage in 21 additional states, closing 2021 with 44 states total that offer Dexcom 
CGM systems to certain eligible members. Additionally, we recently established the 
Dexcom Patient Assistance Program in the United States to assist Dexcom customers 
who lost their jobs and associated employment benefits.
Global Accessibility:  
We have obtained marketing authorization for Dexcom CGM technology in more 
than 50 countries and plan to continue to broaden our geographic presence around 
the world, including in regions that do not currently have access to leading diabetes 
management technology. 
A key initiative to extend our geographic presence was the introduction of Dexcom 
ONE. Dexcom ONE was designed to streamline the process of entering new 
geographies and simplify accessibility for customers. Available on our e-commerce 
platform at an affordable price point, we have made it easy for interested individuals 
to purchase a Dexcom CGM. In 2021, this product debuted in four Eastern European 
countries where we previously had no presence. In recognition of the favorable 
customer response and proven health outcomes, the national health systems in two 
of these markets have taken steps to establish reimbursement. We will continue to 
leverage this platform to reach new geographies and broaden access worldwide.Access for type 2 intensive customers:   
We have demonstrated significant clinical outcomes that document the value of 
Dexcom CGM systems to people with type 2 diabetes on mealtime insulin.1 Our 
Global Access team continues to work diligently to enable access for this community 
of people with diabetes. In recent years, we have advanced coverage efforts so that 
the large majority of people with type 2 intensively managed diabetes in the U.S. now 
have coverage for Dexcom CGM systems.Reducing Barriers 
to Therapy (cont.)
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
1. Beck RW, et al. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167:365–374. doi: 10.7326/M16-2855
2. https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2780593
3. ADA 2022 Standards of Care
Think big24
Garmin was our first 
partner to launch apps 
connected to our 
real-time API.
This partnership allows users of 
Dexcom CGM to see their glucose 
levels and trends in real-time on their 
compatible Garmin smartwatch or 
cycling computer.Advocating for 
Interoperability
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Through longstanding collaborations with leading insulin delivery companies, 
Dexcom emerged as a pioneer of patient choice and open architecture platforms. 
Our strategy is driven by the belief that no customer should be restricted from using 
our CGM systems, regardless of their preferred method of insulin delivery. 
We continue to support device interoperability by maintaining an open architecture 
platform for developers and assessing options for additional collaborations with 
corporations and non-profit organizations.
Our growing software ecosystem supports our commitment to interoperability 
and customer choice. For example, we received FDA clearance for two software 
solutions in 2021 that enable third-party developers to integrate Dexcom CGM 
data into their digital health apps and devices. These solutions provide Dexcom 
users greater variety in where and how they engage with their glucose data. 
Expanding our ecosystem remains a priority, and we view software as an avenue to 
differentiate, expand, and personalize the Dexcom experience for users. 
Think big25
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Expanding 
Manufacturing
Designing 
Product for Scale
Demonstrating 
Clinical and 
Economic 
OutcomesAs the demand for Dexcom CGM technology continues to grow, our operations 
team has focused extensively on scaling additional capacity to expand the 
markets we serve. By expanding our ability to produce incremental sensors, 
including the current development of our first international manufacturing 
location in Malaysia, we are establishing the foundation to benefit more patients 
over the short and long-term.
The commitment to expanding access requires thoughtful action throughout 
the organization. To meet our ambitious capacity expansion goals, our Research 
and Development and Operations teams have collaborated extensively to adapt 
Dexcom G6 production and increase manufacturing yield. 
We have specifically designed our next generation Dexcom G7 Continuous Glucose 
Monitoring (CGM) System to scale efficiently as we look to expand the use of our 
CGM technology for diabetes management around the world. We look forward to 
the continued development of this system as a key initiative for our access efforts.
As we scale production capacity, we work diligently to demonstrate and expand 
awareness of our technology’s benefits. For example, in 2021, our clinical 
scientists wrote or supported more than 52 peer-reviewed journal articles 
assessing the impact of Dexcom CGM systems in several different settings. 
In addition to clinical outcomes, we are working extensively to further 
demonstrate the ability of Dexcom CGM technology to contribute to economic 
savings in the global healthcare system. A preliminary pilot study conducted 
by Intermountain Healthcare demonstrated strong improvements in clinical 
outcomes, costs, and self-reported measures for a cohort of patients with type 
2 diabetes using Dexcom CGM systems, compared to those measuring blood 
glucose via standard of care fingersticks.1
Separately, we presented a real-world evidence study at the American Diabetes 
Association’s 81st Scientific Sessions, which reached similar conclusions. This 
study demonstrated that the use of real-time CGM was associated with a mean 
reduction in spending per-person-per month of $424.2
In 2021, we added to our portfolio of health economic outcomes a study 
demonstrating the long-term cost effectiveness of Dexcom CGM in adults with 
type 1 diabetes in Canada.3 This study concluded that Dexcom CGM improved 
mean quality-adjusted life expectancy and presented a cost-effective option 
relative to SMBG. 
This result validates conclusions we have consistently seen in our long-term 
health economic analyses.4
1. Isaacson et al. Journal of Diabetes Science and Technology. September 2020.
2. https://www.endocrinologynetwork.com/view/real-time-cgm-use-associated-with-reduced-medical-costs-in-patients-with-type-2-diabetes
3. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34408456/
4. See for example UK Health Economic Analysis; France Health Economic Analysis
Think big26
Expanding to the broader 
type 2 diabetes population 
and targeting chronic 
disease prevention
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
To address the global diabetes epidemic, we believe that we must 
bring Dexcom CGM technology to people with type 2 diabetes—
and eventually, make it available as a tool to support broader 
population health and help prevent disease onset. We are currently 
working to demonstrate evidence of user engagement, health 
outcomes, and economic outcomes as we seek to expand access 
for all people with diabetes and the indications for using our 
technology beyond diabetes.
Commitment to a sustainable future
As a company at the forefront of continuous glucose monitoring 
technology, we embrace the opportunity to extend our commitment 
to all our stakeholders, suppliers, and subcontractors. 
Dexcom is committed to minimizing the global consumption of 
natural resources through proactive monitoring and sustainability 
training for all Dexcom employees. We are dedicated to 
implementing practices that reduce the environmental impact of our 
operations and products, manage environmental risks, and create 
more sustainable outcomes. Our overarching environmental policy is 
to: “Respect and Protect the Environment.”
In 2021, Dexcom’s Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) 
Department established a new branch dedicated solely to expanding 
our sustainability initiatives. The department has been retitled 
Environmental, Health, Safety, and Sustainability (EHSS) and has 
committed to leading our environmental sustainability programs 
through the Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) program. 
Environmental 
strategies,  
policies,  
and practicesThe Environmental Policy is a required part of new employee 
training, is posted in each facility, and is available to interested parties 
on Dexcom’s external website. 
Environmental,  
Health, Safety,  
and Sustainability
At Dexcom, thinking big 
also means committing to 
operating our business in a 
manner that is responsible 
for, and protective of, the 
environment. 
Dexcom has robust global corporate 
standards and policies to address 
environmental compliance and strategies. 
Think bigAt Dexcom, we recognize the gravity of the global climate crisis  
and are taking steps to better understand and manage our  
environmental footprint. 
27
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Climate change
At the end of 2021, we implemented sustainability software to track our industrial facilities’ ecological footprint and 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2022, we will utilize this software to establish baseline metrics. With this information, 
we plan to set specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound (SMART) science-based targets focused on 
reducing our emissions.
In recognition of the need for greater transparency and consistency in climate-related risk disclosure, we are evaluating 
the inclusion of an industry-recommended framework, such as the Task Force for Climate Related Financial Disclosure 
(TCFD), into our reporting going forward. We are actively assessing which structure and metrics would best improve our 
climate dialogue with our stakeholders, and we plan to incorporate these changes into our sustainability reporting.
In 2021, the Logistics and Distribution team conducted a new pilot program designed to reduce GHG emissions within 
the distribution process. The program evaluated how to stack pallets more efficiently in trucks and tested our ability to 
reduce our utilization of refrigerated trucking during cooler months of the year. The study demonstrated the potential for 
a 30%+ reduction in GHG emissions, leading to a broader implementation in 2022. 
We also approved a new mode of ocean shipping, which can replace air freight for half of our international shipments to 
EMEA. Since long-haul air freight generates 47 times as much greenhouse gas emissions as ocean freight, this program 
can help us reduce our emissions footprint. We look forward to building on these carbon-reduction programs in 2022 to 
work towards a more sustainable future. 
We were mindful to 
incorporate sustainability 
into each step of the design 
of our next generation 
Dexcom G7 sensor. 
As a result, we are now bringing a product 
to market that will both enhance the 
customer experience and reduce our 
environmental footprint. Some stats 
around Dexcom G7 include: 20%+ 3x
76% 56%less plastic than Dexcom G6 more efficient 
pallet utilization
less volume compared to 
G6 Pro Continuous Glucose 
Monitoring (CGM) Systemless packaging plastic 
and paper weights 
than Dexcom G6Applicator uses Enables
Think big28
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Prior to our full G7 launch, internal models suggest 
that shipping the same number of Dexcom G7 
sensors as Dexcom G6 sensors will require fewer 
people, flights, truckloads, and associated emissions.  
A visual representation of how this could improve 
our emissions profile is shown below.Reducing our form factor 
and packaging may allow us 
to be far more efficient when 
transporting our product.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Think big
G6 vs. G7 Environmental Impact 
Lower Deck
Forward Aft
Typical Cargo 
SectionCross section showing 
main deck container  
placementBOEING 747  
Transporting 20 million units 
would require
220 
trips600 
trips
29
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Protecting  
water resources
Energy efficiency Dexcom’s primary manufacturing facilities in San Diego, CA, 
and Mesa, AZ, are in regions impacted by low rainfall and 
drought conditions. Drought-tolerant landscaping has been 
utilized at these facilities to reduce water usage.  
Where feasible, water-efficient toilets are installed in facilities. 
Our industrial facilities implement strong stormwater pollution 
prevention programs to protect local watersheds.
Energy efficiency is considered for all facilities and 
electronic equipment. Dexcom’s goal is to purchase 
electronic equipment that meets the highest 
sustainability standards. In addition, for existing 
building equipment and systems, we are investing in 
retro-commissioning to improve energy efficiency. 
Think big30The product stewardship team within the EHSS Department is focused 
on restricted substance compliance, assessing material composition, 
and overseeing a Design for the Environment Standard. 
On an ongoing basis, 
our teams actively map the 
lifecycles of product waste at 
our facilities to continuously 
assess and improve our waste 
management processes. 
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Product stewardship
Waste reduction initiativesDexcom follows product stewardship regulations that protect human health and the environment from chemicals in 
consumer products that are known to cause harm. Examples of these regulatory requirements that enforce chemical 
restrictions in consumer products include the European Union (EU) Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and 
Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation, EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive, and the EU 
Packaging Directive. Dexcom reviews the chemical composition of every part of our CGM systems to ensure they meet 
these restricted chemical standards. In 2021, we implemented a new Green Data Manager Database to analyze chemical 
composition of components to comply with international environmental regulations.
Dexcom also undertakes Extended Producer Responsibility. We pay for recycling plastic, paper, battery, and electronic 
waste in Austria, Germany, Ireland, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. These amounts in 2021 were 
approximately 1,997 lbs. of batteries, 203,850 lbs. of paper packaging, 131,831 lbs. of plastic packaging, and 13,635 lbs. 
of electronics. For perspective, the amount of plastic packaging waste is roughly equivalent to the weight of 60 cars. In 
2021, Dexcom continued to refine our packaging, building upon the accomplishments from 2020 when we reduced our 
material usage by 65% for a 1-pack and 59% for a 3-pack. 
Recycling and reuse initiatives have been initiated globally and include 
segregation systems to minimize waste and promote reuse. 
Our strategic approach to waste reduction follows the waste hierarchy system. 
This framework ranks various waste management outlets based on their relative 
environmental impact. These guidelines aim to minimize waste at the source 
and ultimately divert waste from the landfill. Source Reduction
Reuse
Recycle
Recovery
DisposalMOST PREFERRED
LEAST PREFERRED
Think big31
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Plastic waste Hazardous waste Electronic waste
In 2020, we initiated a waste to 
energy pilot program that redirected 
our manufacturing non-medical 
plastic waste to a reprocessing plant. 
This plant processes plastic waste 
and turns it into new materials such 
as pellets and injection molding. The 
resultant pellets (post-consumer 
resins) are sold and reproduced as 
other consumable plastic goods. 
After a successful trial, as of 
spring 2021, all plastic applicator 
waste generated in San Diego 
manufacturing facilities was sent 
to be reprocessed and repurposed. 
In 2022, we plan to expand this 
program to sites outside of  
San Diego. 
In 2021, we were able to limit the 
growth of our plastic waste to only 
12% despite approximately 39% 
growth in our customer base and an 
expanding manufacturing footprint. 
This reduction demonstrates our 
commitment to finding ongoing 
efficiencies in our manufacturing 
processes even in a period of rapidly 
growing product demand. We maintain a similar focus on 
minimizing our hazardous waste. 
From 2020 to 2021, there was only 
an 8% increase in hazardous waste 
across manufacturing facilities 
despite the robust growth in the 
customer base, as previously 
mentioned. Maintaining a sterile 
environment is of utmost importance 
when manufacturing a high-quality 
medical device. When equipment 
is moved, and new cleanrooms are 
set up, environmental cleaning and 
equipment qualification are required. 
This results in cleaning using 
isopropyl alcohol and  
other cleaning chemicals. Our 
team is currently evaluating 
methods to manage our sterilization 
requirements more sustainably to 
limit our hazardous waste further. All electronic and battery waste is 
recycled through waste processors. 
In 2021, we recycled approximately 
18,000 pounds of battery and 
electronics (including transmitters  
and receivers). In 2021 EHSS focused on manufacturing recycling efforts, specifically 
toward zero landfill as a goal. 
Ongoing and Future Projects:
Reuse Source Reduction Recycle
Applicator Tray Reuse Pilot 
Program – an initiative to 
reuse plastic trays in the 
manufacturing process up to 
10 times instead of 
one-time use. Reduce use of isopropyl alcohol as a 
cleaning agent. Currently evaluating 
the use of UV technology for 
materials and equipment sterilization 
before transfer into clean room.Review waste streams for 
optimization and diversion 
from landfills.
Think big
3132In 2021, a new Employee Resource Group (ERG) called the “Green Team” 
was formed through grassroots initiatives by Dexcom employees to  
advance environmentally sustainable practices in the workplace. 
We take pride in creating and maintaining a safe working environment 
for all employees by integrating occupational health and safety into 
our business planning, equipment design, decision-making, and 
daily activities. 
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Community engagement
Health and safetyThe Green Team’s vision is to help guide Dexcom to be a leader of environmental responsibility in 
the medical device industry. They have hosted educational seminars, held social events including 
community clean-ups, promoted more sustainable thinking, and developed a framework for 
sustainability improvements across the organization. In addition to expanding membership and events, 
the Green Team continues to advocate for the adoption of their sustainability framework to ensure 
that environmental stewardship is part of our organization’s DNA.
The EHSS department completes job hazard 
analyses for each job function and has a robust 
industrial ergonomics program. By adopting 
a continuous improvement philosophy to 
workplace safety, our total U.S. injury rate has 
consistently tracked below industry averages.
In 2021, the EHSS department enhanced our 
automated safety program by hiring new 
specialized safety engineers. This program 
strengthens the communication between 
manufacturing, engineering, and EHSS. These 
groups collectively write standardized safety 
programs for Dexcom specific to machine 
safety, educate engineers on equipment-related 
safety, provide support in equipment design, and 
collaborate on incident investigations related  
to equipment.
Think big
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) calculations 
include all US manufacturing sites and workers
Industry average for NAICS code 33911 
(Medical equipment and supplies manufacturing):
1.60 US Total TRIR
20212020 1.17
1.4033
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Mesa is proud to be the home of two Dexcom facilities.  
Since their arrival in 2017, Dexcom has increased job 
opportunities in both healthcare and manufacturing and has 
proven to be a tremendous community partner. I’m proud of  
their success and pleased to celebrate the opening of the 
Regional Distribution Center.*
John Giles
Mayor of Mesa, AZAwareness campaigns Ergonomic programs
EHSS promotes safety awareness campaigns across our 
organization that include earthquake awareness, travel 
safety, heat awareness, and early reporting of injuries. In 2021, the Dexcom ergonomic team refined our 
proactive and reactive ergonomic programs. Using 
Artificial Intelligence Software, our EHSS team  
completed over 150 process evaluations for tasks  
within our manufacturing and pilot operations.  
When ergonomic processes with risk scores above 
moderate were identified, these were addressed with 
controls designed to minimize or eliminate risk. 
The team also investigated ergonomic injury trends  
across our operations. An Ergonomic Improvement  
Plan was developed to reverse any unsatisfactory  
trends. Our phased approach began with tool design  
and workstation redesign. The second phase was the 
launch of corporate-wide Ergonomic Best Practices. 
By promoting a greater understanding of ergonomic 
protocols, we believe we can further reduce health  
and safety incidents across our organization. Warehouse safety
In 2021, Dexcom opened a new 500,000 square foot 
Receiving and Distribution Center in Mesa, AZ. To ensure 
the safety of all warehouse personnel, training on the 
Warehouse Safety Manual and Safe Material Handling 
Practices are required prior to working on the warehouse 
floor in addition to other EHSS required training  
(e.g., EHSS Handbook, Emergency Action Plan, etc.). 
Qualified individuals are selected to operate Powered 
Industrial Trucks (PITs) and must undergo specialized 
training on the equipment, conducted by a trained 
representative from the EHSS department. 
* https://ktar.com/story/4810214/dexcom-opens-new-500000-square-foot-distribution-center-in-mesa/
Think big34
Protecting our employees
We are thankful for the support from Dexcom and other partners 
to make this indoor vaccine site a reality and continue to roll the 
vaccine out in Arizona.*
Dr. Cara Christ
Director, Arizona Department 
of Health Services
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
COVID-19 response
In response to the ongoing uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic, our teams have been flexible and creative to 
keep our employees safe and continue to meet the needs of our many stakeholders. Through the coordinated effort of 
the Dexcom Central Emergency Response Committee (CERC), we set out to navigate the pandemic with three primary 
commitments: protecting our employees, serving our customers, and helping our communities. 
Offered flexible and remote  
work options for non-essential 
onsite employees 
For facility remodels,  
re-designed cubicles to  
allow for social distancingProvided all employees with 
personal protective equipment 
(PPE) and cloth face masks
Built robust contact  
tracing programInstalled thermal cameras at 
Dexcom facilities worldwide
Offered optional onsite COVID testing 
for workers as a precautionary measure 
when entering select facilities
Serving our customers Helping our communities
People with diabetes are at heightened risk for severe 
outcomes from the virus, making glycemic control 
especially important during this challenging period. 
We continue to increase our manufacturing output to 
serve this growing need even in the face of operational 
challenges created by the pandemic.Five onsite vaccine/booster clinics were held at the  
San Diego, CA facility and were open to employees, 
friends, and family. 
Before fully operational, space in the new Receiving and 
Distribution Warehouse in Mesa, AZ was utilized as the 
nation’s first indoor, fully air-conditioned COVID-19  
drive-through vaccination site. More than 100,000 
vaccine doses were administered to the community.
* https://cronkitenews.azpbs.org/2021/04/05/ 
indoor-drive-thru-vaccination-site-opens-at-warehouse-in-mesa/
Think bigBe dependable
Dexcom seeks to exemplify quality in all 
aspects of the organization. 
While our end goal is the production of the highest caliber CGM devices that 
empower people to take control of diabetes, achieving this goal requires 
an even broader approach. It requires us to foster a culture where every 
Dexcom employee understands their essential role in designing, testing, and 
manufacturing our devices that are used every day by our customers. We 
emphasize this commitment in the core value, “Be Dependable.”
35
36Dexcom features the following key elements within its 
approach to organization-wide quality:
Education and  
awarenessQuality Management 
System (QMS)Continuous 
improvement01 02 03
37
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Quality 
Management 
System (QMS)
We maintain a robust Global Quality Management System 
in compliance with applicable US and international 
regulatory requirements. This includes compliance 
with key regulations and standards like the FDA Quality 
System Regulation (QSR), the European Medical Device 
Regulation (MDR), and International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) 13485, the primary international 
standard for medical devices by which we and our 
facilities are certified. Furthermore, we have strengthened 
our Global QMS to align with our international growth 
by obtaining certification to the Medical Device Single 
Audit Program (MDSAP). We view our Global QMS as 
a foundation of sustainable business practices and a 
Dexcom core strength.
Education and  
awareness
Individual efforts are critical to upholding our 
company-wide standards for high quality products. 
We require all new employees to receive training  
on the company’s quality policy and objectives. 
Also, we provide continuing education to promote 
our culture of quality and inform our employees 
about changes that can potentially impact the 
quality of our products and the effectiveness of  
our quality policies. 
We encourage our employees to continue their 
formal education and routinely benchmark against 
best-in-class companies. Together, these efforts 
support a holistic embrace of the quality standards 
that define Dexcom as an organization.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Be dependable38
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
In alignment with our commitment to continuous improvement and product quality, Dexcom invests strategically in 
reliability efforts. We aim to achieve the highest level of quality and set the standard for CGM product excellence. We 
believe that our reliability initiatives will ensure that our products continue to offer our patients a superior customer 
experience along with exceptional performance.
Continuous  
improvement
As a core element of our Global QMS, we undertake annual reviews 
of quality initiatives to ensure Dexcom compliance with evolving 
standards and continuous improvement of our processes and 
products. Certification under MDSAP demonstrates our compliance 
with regulatory requirements for Australia, Canada, Japan, and 
the United States. We completed a scope extension of our MDSAP 
certification to include Brazil, the fifth country currently participating 
in this program, in 2021.
We deploy robust and global processes aimed at monitoring and 
continuously improving, such as:Ongoing investments help ensure that our Global QMS is built for scale and efficiency. We are currently 
upgrading our global automated solutions in the areas of change control, employee training, and  
complaint handling.
Every step of our development and manufacturing processes are intended to meet and exceed 
customer requirements.
Innovation and development processes
Automated manufacturing processesCustomer experience
Expanded post-market analyticsRecent initiatives
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Be dependableServe with  
integrity
Dexcom is committed to operating with the 
highest standards of ethics, as captured in the 
core value, “Serve with Integrity.” 
3940
This commitment extends to 
all aspects of the organization, 
including: the safety and 
effectiveness of our products, 
the way we serve and empower 
our customers and employees, 
our focus on innovation as 
we seek to address issues 
of customer access to our 
products, and the way we 
communicate our story to  
our stakeholders.
Board of Directors Dexcom compliance 
programData privacy01 02 03While oversight of the company’s ethics and governance structure begins with the 
Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team, Dexcom expects all employees 
to foster a culture of accountability in line with our Code of Conduct.
41
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Sustainability Oversight
Best PracticesIn recognition of the unique role that we play as global 
corporate citizens, our Board oversees our corporate 
social responsibility and sustainability initiatives, 
with responsibility allocated to the Nominating and 
Governance Committee. The Nominating and Governance 
Committee Charter provides annual review of material 
issues, risk mitigation, and company performance with 
respect to corporate social responsibility and sustainability.
Our Nominating and Governance Committee is 
committed to structuring our bylaws to be in the best 
interests of our stakeholders. In 2021, we proactively 
amended our bylaws to add proxy access and declassify 
our board of directors. We will continue to assess our 
governance structure on an ongoing basis to ensure we 
are aligned with best practices in the industry. 
Total number of directors11
Independence
We maintain a strong emphasis on director independence. 
Ten of our eleven current directors are independent, 
and all four of our standing committees (audit, 
compensation, technology, and nominating/governance) 
are comprised exclusively of independent directors. We 
have also designated a Lead Independent Director as 
a core principle of governance to maintain effective, 
independent oversight of the Executive Leadership Team.Board of Directors
Given their engagement and oversight of the company’s 
strategy, culture, and risk management, we maintain high 
expectations for our Board members. In addition to the roles 
described in the Corporate Governance Principles, our Board 
prioritizes the following:The Board of Directors and Executive 
Leadership Team oversee the 
implementation and communication 
of company policies that constitute 
service with integrity. 
Diversity
We believe that representation of the company’s diverse 
stakeholders is best achieved by a Board of Directors 
comprised of different genders, ethnicities, backgrounds, 
and experiences. Our current Board consists of leading 
experts in endocrinology, internal medicine, and digital 
health, as well as business leaders with financial, technical, 
legal, and operational experience across the continuum of 
the healthcare, technology, and consumer sectors.
With our most recent additions, Karen Dahut and Kyle 
Malady joined the Board of Directors. Ms. Dahut brings to 
the Board extensive leadership experience in technology, 
cyber, and analytics and currently serves as the Group 
Leader of the Global Commercial and Global Defense 
businesses at Booz Allen Hamilton. Mr. Malady currently 
serves as Executive Vice President of Global Networks 
and Technology and Chief Technology Officer at Verizon 
Communications Inc. Ms. Dahut and Mr. Malady are 
highly respected leaders in their fields and bring a wealth 
of experience to Dexcom, helping to bolster our efforts 
around data infrastructure, security, and 
connected solutions.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Serve with integrity42
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Dexcom compliance program
Dexcom promotes an organizational culture that encourages ethical 
conduct and adherence to applicable laws and regulations. 
The Code of Conduct, which is available in multiple languages, serves as the foundation for our program, providing a key 
resource for the development and accountability of our employee base. 
The Compliance Department also maintains several avenues that encourage employees to learn, 
speak up, and ask questions:
Employee trainingMultiple compliance 
reporting resourcesCommitment to 
non-retaliation and 
confidentiality
All Dexcom employees are required 
to complete annual compliance 
training, including training on our 
Code of Conduct and on applicable 
laws, regulations, and industry codes. 
This ensures that employees are 
equipped to meet or exceed our 
expectations for ethical business 
conduct. In addition, employees 
can access compliance training and 
applicable policies and procedures 
through our internally hosted 
compliance website.We promote a culture of ethics and 
integrity by welcoming questions and 
encouraging internal accountability. 
In addition to the internal compliance 
website, all Dexcom employees 
around the world can submit 
questions or file reports directly with 
any member of the Compliance 
Department, through a dedicated 
Compliance email address, or 
anonymously through our third-party 
hosted Compliance Helpline.The Dexcom Compliance 
Department, in coordination with 
other relevant departments, monitors 
compliance with applicable laws, 
regulations, and ethical requirements 
and investigates all reports of Code 
violations or unlawful activity. We 
also explicitly prohibit harassment 
and retaliation against anyone who 
seeks advice, raises concern, reports 
misconduct, or provides information 
in an investigation.Part 1: Gender Identity Female Male Non-Binary
Directors 3 8 0
Part 2: Demographic Background
African American or Black 1 - -
Alaskan Native or Native American - - -
Asian - - -
Hispanic or Latinx - - -
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander - - -
White 2 8 -
Two or More Races or Ethnicities - - -
LGBTQ+ 1Board Diversity Matrix (as of March 31, 2022)
Serve with integrity43
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
We are also committed to incorporating a privacy-by-design framework in our daily operations. This means that we 
proactively embed data privacy and protection principles into the design, operation, and management of all our products 
and systems. As we develop and maintain products and systems, we will continue to respect user privacy and keep 
our data collection practices open and transparent. To foster this, we maintain a Privacy Portal where all customers, 
healthcare providers, employees, and other stakeholders can access their data or exercise various data privacy rights.
To implement the principles above and maintain the trust of our customers, we have established a Personal Data 
Privacy Program that requires annual training for our employees. This training ensures that employees understand their 
obligations concerning personal data.
We recently reached a 
significant milestone in our 
efforts to demonstrate our 
commitment to data security. 
SRI, an independent registrar for ISO 
certifications, officially certified that 
the Dexcom Information Security 
Management System conforms with 
ISO/IEC 27001:2013.  This certification reflects a cross-functional effort 
across the Dexcom organization to validate our 
efforts and provide assurance to our customers and 
business partners. We look forward to the ongoing 
impact of this achievement as we target best 
practices for monitoring, reviewing, maintaining, 
and improving the Dexcom information security 
management system.
Data privacy
Our customers, employees, healthcare 
providers, and many others entrust Dexcom 
with their personal data. 
We are committed to preserving the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of 
personal data throughout its life cycle, from creation through disposition.
Employees help protect the privacy of personal data by following certain principles, including:
Collecting and using the minimum 
amount of personal data necessary 
to achieve the business purposes for 
which the data was collected.Keeping personal data only as 
long as necessary to achieve 
those purposes.Sharing personal data only with 
individuals who have a legitimate 
need for it and are authorized to 
receive it.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
 Serve with integrityEmpowering people to 
take control of diabetes.45
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Appendix
Sustainability Accounting Standards  
Board (SASB) Index – Medical Equipment  
and Supplies
4546
In response to stakeholder feedback, we are publishing our first 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index in this 
year’s report. 
This disclosure improves our ESG transparency and allows for greater comparability across the industry. Adopting this 
framework also helps focus our sustainability efforts on the areas considered most important by our stakeholders. 
All data reflects calendar year 2021, unless noted otherwise.  47
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
Material Topic Disclosure Description Location or Response
Access & Affordability HC-MS-240a.1Ratio of weighted average rate 
of net price increases (for all 
products) to the annual increase 
in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexData not available for disclosure.  
 
In general, through Dexcom's access to healthcare initiatives, the 
average revenue per customer to Dexcom has been lowered over 
the past several years, including 2021.
HC-MS-240a.2Description of how price 
information for each product is 
disclosed to customers or  
to their agentsAccess to Healthcare
Product Quality  
& SafetyHC-MS-250a.1Number of recalls issued,  
total units recalledThere was one voluntary recall of two lots of Dexcom G6 Sensors 
initiated by one of Dexcom’s international distributors in 2021. 
The lots were subject to an over-labeling process conducted  
outside of normal manufacturing processes. The error was  
isolated to the barcode with no potential for patient harm.
HC-MS-250a.2List of products listed in the 
FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts 
for Human Medical Products 
databaseDexcom has zero products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety 
Alerts for Human Medical Products database.
HC-MS-250a.3Number of fatalities related to 
products as reported in the FDA 
Manufacturer and User Facility 
Device ExperienceThere were zero fatalities in 2021 related to our products. 
HC-MS-250a.4Number of FDA enforcement 
actions taken in response  
to violations of current  
Good Manufacturing Practices 
(cGMP), by typeThere were no warning letters, seizures, or injunctions issued  
in 2021.
Selling Practices & 
Product LabelingHC-MS-270a.1Total amount of monetary  
losses as a result of legal  
proceedings associated with 
false marketing claimsDexcom had no monetary losses in 2021 as a result of legal  
proceedings associated with false marketing claims.
HC-MS-270a.2Description of code of ethics 
governing promotion of off-label 
use of productsDexcom's Code of Conduct affirms Dexcom's commitment to 
following all laws and regulatory requirements that govern our 
business, including those that pertain to the promotion of our 
products. Dexcom's HCP Interactions Policy states that  
"Educational events may not be organized for the purpose of 
disseminating Off-Label Information or for promoting  
Investigational Products or Pipeline Products...[W]ritten materials 
[may] not include Off-Label Information...." The HCP Interactions 
Policy tasks Dexcom's Medical Affairs Department and Medical 
Science Liaisons with responding to unsolicited inquiries that may 
entail Off-Label Information, Investigational Products, or Pipeline  
Products and requires that such responses must be accurate,  
substantiated, scientifically rigorous, and consistent with  
applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Finally, the Policy 
also requires that all Off-Label questions raised during  
communications with healthcare professionals must be referred to 
the Medical Affairs or Medical Science Liaison Teams.  
  
Adherence to our code of conduct is advanced through  
written policies and procedures, in-person and online training,  
Compliance Department monitoring of HCP interactions,  
and review of promotional materials by Dexcom's Regulatory  
and Legal teams.48Material Topic Disclosure Description Location or Response
Product Design &  
Lifecycle ManagementHC-MS-410a.1Discussion of process to assess 
and manage environmental  
and human health  
considerations associated with 
chemicals in products, and meet 
demand for sustainable productsProduct stewardship 
HC-MS-410a.2Total amount of products  
accepted for takeback and 
reused, recycled, or donated, 
broken down by: (1) devices  
and equipment and (2) suppliesIn 2021, Dexcom had 550 metric tons of supplies that were  
recovered and reused, recycled, or donated.
For more information please see the Environmental Section of our 
2021 Sustainability Report.
Supply Chain  
Management HC-MS-430a.1Percentage of (1) entity's  
facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers'  
facilities participating in  
third-party audit programs  
for manufacturing and  
product qualityAll of Dexcom's manufacturing facilities participate in third-party 
audit programs for manufacturing and product quality.  
 
Approximately 17.5% of our Tier I suppliers had obtained ISO or 
similar certifications. 
HC-MS-430a.2Description of efforts to  
maintain traceability within  
the distribution chainDexcom utilizes several processes and systems to maintain 
traceability of materials and products across its supply chain and 
distribution network:
• Enterprise systems and designated lot and serial numbers 
enable tracking of materials and product throughout  
stages leading to product realization. Additional barcode  
technology ensures that traceability of product is  
maintained to the end user, including the chain of  
distribution that includes Dexcom distributors and  
wholesalers.
• Supplier audits are performed to ensure conformance  
to Dexcom's traceability standards.
Quality Management Section
HC-MS-430a.3Description of the management  
of risks associated with the use  
of critical materialsOur supplier portal outlines how suppliers should conduct 
business with Dexcom in terms of Code of Conduct, Anti-Human 
Trafficking, as well as Conflict Minerals. 
 
In addition, our EHS group follows up directly with suppliers on 
critical materials. 
To mitigate risk surrounding critical materials, we maintain:
• SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT: Disclosure covers that  
Dexcom implements a Supplier Code of Conduct.
• CONFLICT MINERALS POLICY: Disclosure covers that  
Dexcom implements a Conflicts Mineral Policy.
• Business Continuity Plan ensuring management of risks for 
single sourced critical materials or natural disaster driven 
shortages including contingency plans for any potential 
adverse event.
Business Ethics &  
Competitive BehaviorHC-MS-510a.2Description of code of ethics  
governing interactions with 
health care professionalsDexcom's Code of Conduct sets forth the general principles  
governing HCP interactions. Dexcom also maintains a number  
of policies and procedures governing HCP Interactions, including 
HCP Interactions Policies for the US, Canada, EMEA, and  
Asia Pacific, a Global Samples Policy, and a Process Instruction  
on the conduct of Speaker Programs in the US.
To ensure compliance, we maintain written policies and  
procedures, in-person and online training, and Compliance  
monitoring of HCP interactions.
HC-MS-000.ANumber of units sold by  
product categoryDexcom does not disclose the number of units sold by  
product category. However, we disclosed that we ended 2021  
with approximately 1.25 million users. The majority of these  
users are using their CGM systems, of which the sensor lasts  
10 days, nearly full time.
Organizational  
ActivitiesHC-MS-510a.1Total amount of monetary  
losses as a result of legal  
proceedings associated with 
bribery or corruptionDexcom had no monetary losses in 2021 as a result of legal  
proceedings associated with bribery or corruption.
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable49
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
In addition  
to the core  
initiatives above,
the following documents 
and websites contain key 
information with respect to  
our commitment to integrity:
The Dexcom Trust Center is 
our site dedicated to ethics, 
compliance, and privacy.
Policies on Interactions with 
Healthcare Professionals
Grants Policy
Anti-Human Trafficking Policy
Corporate Governance 
Principles
Anti-Bribery and  
Anti-Corruption Policies  
and Procedures
Conflicts of Interest Policy
Dexcom Supplier  
Code of Conduct
Conflict Minerals Policy
Executive Stock  
Ownership Guidelines
Clinical Research  
Program and Standards
Board of Directors Committee Charters:
Nominating and  
Governance Committee
Compensation CommitteeAudit Committee
Technology Committee
The Code of Conduct also contains information with respect to:
Ethical sales and 
marketing practices
Political 
contributions
Safety and healthInteractions  
with patients and 
healthcare providers
Diversity,  
equity, and inclusion  
in the workplace
Environmental 
sustainabilityAnti-bribery and  
anti-corruption
Discrimination  
and harassment
Animal welfare  
and testing
Disclaimer: [Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report]Empowering people to 
take control of diabetes.51
Serve with integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report
March 2022
Listen
 Think big
 Be dependable
2022 DexCom, Inc.  
Sustainability Report
Dexcom, Inc. | Corporate Headquarters
6340 Sequence Drive
San Diego, CA 92121
dexcom.com