DEXCOM, INC.  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
March 2021Whether it is through expanding access to healthcare, charitable giving, initiatives that 
support employees’ wellbeing, efforts to reduce waste and emissions, or ongoing ethical 
conduct, we firmly believe that our corporate citizenship investments are both the right 
choice for the business’s long-term success and the right thing to do. 
With that in mind, I am pleased to share the annual Dexcom sustainability report. It speaks 
not only to our commitment to innovative thinking, but to making a healthy positive, lasting 
impact on the world we share. 
I look forward to keeping you updated on our progress.Since its inception in 1999, the Dexcom mission has 
centered around positively impacting the lives of 
people with diabetes. And while this starts with our 
industry-leading continuous glucose monitoring 
(CGM) technology, it does not end there. 
We also strive to advance the interests of all our 
stakeholders – including patients, caregivers, 
employees, investors, and our communities – by 
operating in an ethical and sustainable way, one that 
holds true to our core values: Listen, Think Big, Be Dependable, and Serve with Integrity. These values 
are at the heart of every Dexcom sustainability activity 
that spans the globe.A LETTER FROM OUR CEO
Kevin Sayer
Chairman, President & CEO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
We use our Sustainability Report to share how we are managing our sustainability goals, 
as well as to respond to a broad set of stakeholder expectations and inquiries we receive throughout the year.
This report covers fiscal year results for the period ended December 31, 2020, unless 
otherwise noted. Data includes our operations around the world, unless otherwise stated. Some data has been rounded. Monetary figures are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. Dexcom undertakes no responsibility to update this information after the date of this report.A LETTER FROM OUR CEO  ........................................................................................ 2
LISTEN  ........................................................................................................................ 4
Listening to our Customers  .................................................................................. 4
Dexcom Warriors  ................................................................................................... 4
Active Participation within the Diabetes Community  ....................................... 5
Offering Patient Choice  ........................................................................................ 7
“On the Bright Side” Notifications  ...................................................................... 7
Listening to our Employees  .................................................................................. 8
Investing in our Employees  .................................................................................. 8
Supporting Our Employees and Their Families  ................................................. 9
Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion:  ..................................... 11
THINK BIG  ................................................................................................................ 15
Access to Healthcare  ........................................................................................... 17
Environmental Impact  ........................................................................................ 20
Conserving Natural Resources  .......................................................................... 20
Reducing Waste  ................................................................................................... 21
Reducing Emissions and Effluents  ..................................................................... 22
Education, Monitoring and Improvement  ........................................................ 23
BE DEPENDABLE  ...................................................................................................... 24
Quality  .................................................................................................................. 24
Employee Health and Safety  .............................................................................. 26
Our COVID-19 Response  .................................................................................... 27
SERVE WITH INTEGRITY  ......................................................................................... 29
Board of Directors  ............................................................................................... 30
Dexcom Compliance Program  ........................................................................... 31
Data Privacy  ......................................................................................................... 32Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  4LISTEN
The pursuit of continuous improvement and impact drives our global efforts at Dexcom. We pay 
attention to the evolving needs of our customers, healthcare providers, employees, researchers, 
payers, and broader set of stakeholders to exemplify “Listen,” the first of our four core values.
Listening to our Customers
While Dexcom has built its reputation by designing, manufacturing and selling continuous 
glucose monitoring (CGM) technology that surpasses and redefines industry standards, we also 
understand that the customer experience involves more than providing data and insights. Beyond 
tangible products, the customer experience also encompasses a greater understanding of, and an 
active response to, their underlying motivations. Therefore, we have structured our company to 
listen to our customers and address their needs and interests.
The following initiatives are representative of the ways we actively participate in the diabetes 
community, and include some of the strategic initiatives and product developments that we have 
pursued in response to stakeholder feedback.
Dexcom Warriors
We believe that providing a forum for our customers’ voices is one of the best ways to learn 
from the diabetes community. In 2015, we established the Dexcom Warriors program and have 
quickly expanded it from 35 to more than 10,000 Warriors at the end of 2020. Our Warriors are 
individuals with type 1 and type 2 diabetes who have raised their hands, ready and eager to help 
increase awareness of diabetes, motivate others and advocate for Dexcom. Warriors include 
social media influencers, athletes, celebrities, and ‘everyday’ people as well—parents, students, 
community leaders, and more.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 5 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.The program revolves around the inspirational stories that 
define each of our Warriors. By providing a platform for the 
incredible people who use our technology every day, we 
hope to educate the diabetes community and spark additional 
awareness of the benefits of using our CGM system to help 
manage diabetes. 
PROJECT 50-IN-50
The brainchild of Michael 
Shelver and Patrick Mertes, two outdoorsmen, living 
with type 1 diabetes (T1D), 
dedicated to proving to 
the world that anything is 
possible with T1D.
Active Participation within the Diabetes Community 
We also listen to the needs of the diabetes community by advocating for their efforts. This commitment includes our own direct support of non-profit organizations and clinical research, as well as our active encouragement of Dexcom employee participation 
within the diabetes community. Below are some of the highlights of our recent efforts:
• Partnering with leading diabetes advocates: 
For many years, Dexcom has stood alongside the Juvenile 
Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF) in their efforts to 
fund research, advocate to regulatory bodies, and provide 
community to people with type 1 diabetes. We have 
provided significant financial support to JDRF over the 
years and expect to continue to advocate with them as 
they advance their worldwide mission. 
 
We support the work of Beyond Type 1 and Children with Diabetes (CWD) in their efforts to unite the global 
diabetes community and provide support for people 
living with diabetes and their families. Our collaboration 
with these groups and other leading diabetes nonprofits 
continues as we head into 2021 with united plans to drive 
better awareness, education and access for diabetes 
management technology.
In addition to supporting annual Friends for Life (FFL) conferences, Dexcom employees have raised more 
than $130,000 in support of Children with Diabetes 
over the past two yearsDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  6
• Encouraging our employees to give back  
to the community:
We actively encourage employee support of the JDRF One Walk fundraiser and event in San Diego, a 3K 
and 5K walk in support of JDRF’s ongoing research 
effort for the type 1 diabetes community. In 2020, 
our employees embraced the virtual walk format and 
raised more than $37,000 in support of this great 
cause.
Employee-funded grants have provided additional 
support to the diabetes community, offering 
assistance to the following organizations in recent 
years: American Youth Understanding Diabetes 
Abroad (AYUDA), College Diabetes Network (CDN), 
DiabetesSisters, and Riding on Insulin.
• Enabling ongoing research and innovation:  We maintain an active research program that not only 
manages our clinical efforts, but supports Investigator 
Initiated Studies, industry-sponsored studies using Dexcom 
CGM systems, as well as studies conducted by non-profits 
or research consortiums. For additional information on our 
ongoing research support as well as our publicly available 
diabetes education tools, please visit our healthcare 
provider site.
• In 2020, Dexcom clinical scientists wrote or supported more than 30 peer-
reviewed journal articles, advancing innovation in healthcare and improved 
patient outcomes.
• We supported more than 120 active clinical trials worldwide in hospitals, 
specialist outpatient clinics, and community settings.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 7 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Offering Patient Choice
We recognize the value of patient choice in the diabetes 
technology community. Therefore, we have prioritized 
integrating our CGM technology with multiple third-party 
insulin delivery options and apps. This means that whether a 
customer chooses to use an insulin pump or an insulin pen, 
we want to enable them to monitor their glucose levels with 
a Dexcom CGM system. We have entered into agreements 
with leading insulin delivery companies to deliver high-quality, 
integrated devices that are designed to improve the lives of 
those we serve.
“On the Bright Side” Notifications
Despite recent technological advancements, diabetes remains a burdensome disease. Through our ongoing engagement with 
our customer community, including our global “Voice of the 
Customer” listening program, we repeatedly heard that people 
with diabetes were aware that certain diabetes management 
products include features to warn them of danger and advise 
on next steps for treatment. However, users reported a lack of 
positive reinforcement within the technology platforms.
Dexcom introduced “On the Bright Side” notifications to 
establish a greater balance of information provided by our products. The “Best Day” and “Time in Range” features (shown 
here) provide two examples of this initiative to bolster self-
efficacy, while attempting to reduce the emotional burden of 
managing diabetes.
As these updates indicate, customer feedback plays a vital 
role in our continuous improvement process. In 2020, we 
created another avenue to enhance our Voice of the Customer 
program by including in-app feedback optionality and 
automated tech support features within our updated Dexcom G6 app. We believe that the open dialogue with our users 
has directly contributed to our strong customer experience 
scores, including the significant improvement to quality of life 
indicated in the results of our recent Landmark Study.*
*Gilbert et al, “Change in HbA1c and Quality of Life with Real-Time CGM Use by People with Insulin-Treated Diabetes in the Landmark Study,” DTT (published 
online January 20, 2021)Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  8Listening to our Employees
We understand the importance of working at companies that value each person’s unique skillsets. In order to foster this culture 
and continue to attract—and retain—top talent throughout the organization, we must continue to listen to the unique needs of our 
employees. 
Dexcom employs a diverse group of leaders, innovators, and creators who find common ground in our mission: to empower 
people to take control of diabetes. But we are also individuals with deep personal aspirations. For that reason, our leadership strives 
to grow and inspire from the top down as we collectively embrace the Dexcom mission.
Investing in our Employees
We believe that investing in our employees’ growth and development will directly enhance our overall company performance. Our comprehensive career development site, called DexcomGO, includes employee resources focusing on the advancement of six core 
competencies that we identify as essential for our workforce:
Employees have access to LinkedIn Learning via the DexcomGO site. LinkedIn Learning currently includes more than 340,000 
training videos on a wide variety of topics, providing the necessary resources for employees to grow in accord with their personal goals. The DexcomGO site also serves as a hub for our virtual and in-person sessions that align with the development of the six 
core competencies. Two of our popular, current course offerings include personal assessment and goal implementation seminars 
titled DiSC Workplace, and Fuel Up 102: Putting Your Goals Into Action and Mastering Your Message.
In 2020, our teams adapted and set out to ensure that career development opportunities were accessible to employees in the 
virtual environment. We supplemented the existing library of DexcomGO content with new, quarterly collections of live and 
on-demand content to support individual growth. These resources included workshops, e-books, podcasts, TED talks and 
recommended articles. Using several of these resources and with guidance from our committed leaders, we provided development 
programs to more than one-third of our global workforce and onboarded more than 2,000 global employees throughout the year.
Drives 
ResultsDemonstrating Self-AwarenessStrategic MindsetCollaboratesCommunicates 
EffectivelyDevelops Talent
“We’re Listening”: Following the rapid transition to the work from home environment in 2020, we encouraged our 
leaders to check-in frequently to gauge the wellbeing of their teams. Tailored surveys sought to assess employee feelings around safety and company support, resource needs and actions to drive productivity in the new environment. Employees provided 
invaluable feedback that helped foster work-life balance, while ensuring productivity across the organization.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 9 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Retirement Savings:  
We offer Dexcom-funded retirement 
plans in each country across the globe 
to help retired employees maintain a 
comfortable standard of living.
Employee Assistance Program:  We have implemented a no-cost, 24/7 employee assistance program that provides 
employees resources for improving communication, relationship counseling, coping 
with loneliness, understanding grief, dealing with stress, anxiety and depression, and 
crisis support. The program also offers work/life resources such as debt counseling, legal assistance, and childcare and eldercare options.
Life/Death and Disability Insurance:  
We offer life/death and disability 
insurance to provide employees and 
their families with financial assistance, 
should they become disabled, unable to 
work, or pass away.
Note: Employee eligibility for certain non-salary benefits may be informed by and will follow local regulations and practices. In certain countries, this means 
we cover all full-time employees and certain part-time employees working more than a certain number of hours.Supporting Our Employees and Their Families 
Dexcom strives to provide choices and flexibility through comprehensive and competitive global benefits, retirement plans and wellbeing programs that support our employees and their families. 
We strive to offer consistent benefits across our global locations, including the following offerings 
for full-time employees in most of the countries in which we operate:Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  10In addition to these core global offerings, we continue to assess areas of improvement for our various 
global locations. As examples of this commitment, we have established the following:
Onsite Health Clinic – Manila: In our growing Philippines location, we offer a full-service, onsite clinic available to employees. This allows them to receive basic health care services without the inconvenience and disruption of an offsite appointment with 
a physician.
Paid Family Leave – U.S.: We noticed a gap in opportunities for child bonding and family care for our domestic employees, 
depending on the respective policies of their state. Therefore, we established a uniform and equitable paid family leave program 
nationwide. This supports employees across the United States who need to take time away from work to care for a covered 
family member, or bond with a newborn or newly placed child. Through the program, they have the means to do so while 
receiving a portion of their pay through wage replacement.
Paid Military Leave-U.S.: Our headquarters, San Diego, is home to the nation’s largest military concentration with more than 
150,000 active duty personnel in 2020. In addition to federal and state mandated military leave, Dexcom provides 100% pay for 
up to four weeks, in conjunction with military pay, for employees who are called for military school attendance, annual field 
training, annual active-duty training, and/or other short-term state or federal tours of active duty (deployment excluded).
In 2020, we also enhanced our employee benefit offerings to include: 
Education Assistance: We support employees who wish to continue their education to prepare for increased responsibilities and growth within their professional careers. In keeping with this philosophy, Dexcom established a reimbursement program for 
certain expenses incurred through approved institutions of learning.
Inspire Wellbeing: Our wellness program, Inspire, intends to help employees and their families that desire to take control of 
their physical, emotional, and financial wellbeing. Through the Inspire platform employees can invite up to ten family members 
and friends to participate in healthy habits, challenges, educational opportunities and more. Additionally, Dexcom organizes 
company-wide steps challenges each year and team-based experiences through the program.
“Get out the Vote” Paid Time Off: We empowered US-based employees’ participation in the democratic process by adding an 
additional day of PTO for all full-time employees to support voting-related activities. We plan to offer this additional time-off 
during future election years, as we seek to foster volunteerism among employees and voter turnout in our local communities.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 11 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: 
At Dexcom, we foster an inclusive workplace to encourage diversity of thought, 
culture and background. We work to enable employees to create an environment 
where diverse perspectives are voiced and heard. Cultivating inclusive employee 
culture is a foundational element of delivering world-class customer experiences 
for our diverse CGM users and Dexcom Warriors.
2020 was a year of significant progress, highlighted by the initiation of 
foundational Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) activities. Through investments 
in our employees and igniting leadership involvement, we established several key 
structures that will help us build and expand our DEI efforts over the next several 
years. We also continued to deliver on core development, contributing to a long-term culture of inclusivity.
We began by establishing our DEI mission and vision:
• Mission: Ensure that the Dexcom population is demographically diverse in a way that 
reflects the patient and healthcare communities in which we operate, while 
creating an inclusive culture that recognizes employees’ unique needs and 
utilizes their diverse talents to improve the decisions we make every day.
• Vision: 
 
We will accomplish our mission by creating a company where:
We create positions that are dictated by the needs of the business, not by quotas
We seek to consider diverse talent, even if it takes longer to do so, and avoid reducing the criteria required for success within a given jobWe will seek to hire and promote the most qualified individual…alwaysAll employees can bring their full selves to work and have the confidence to contribute boldlyWe cast a wide net to find the best talent regardless of backgroundWe identify and nurture our diverse rising leadersWe ensure our employee and leadership base reflects the diverse communities where we do business
We will balance the pursuit of this mission in a way that is consistent with our obligations as a public company, one where:“As a growing company 
serving a diverse 
population, we have a 
responsibility to reflect our 
patient family. Today, we have a heightened sense of 
urgency to accelerate our 
progress. We’ve reached the stage in our corporate 
history where we have 
the resources to make meaningful change inside 
our walls and contribute to 
change outside them.” 
– Kevin Sayer,  
President and CEODexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  12We engaged and involved our leadership by establishing the Diversity Leadership Council. This cross-functional team represents 
all functions of the organization and serves as mentors for our Employee Resource Groups.
We established Employee Resource Groups to bring together employees with common interests or experiences, build 
connections and amplify the voices of these groups. By the end of 2020, nearly 10% of our global workforce participated in our 
global ERG’s. Current resource groups include the following:
• US
• International (Manila based)ABLE: Dexcom Disability Resource Group
DAAN: Dexcom African-American Network
DAPI: Dexcom Asian and Pacific Islander Network
DNAA: Dexcom Native American Alliance
Faith@Dexcom: Faith-based employees
GreyCom: Seniors
LatinX: Latinas and Latinos
PRIDE@Dexcom: LGBTQ+
SAIL: Share-Access-Influence-Lead (Women)
Veterans @Dexcom: Veterans
Luzvimini: Supporting inclusivity and empowerment that reflects the different regional cultures of the Philippines
The Unicorns: LGBTQ+
SAFE: Support for employees experiencing abuse in different contexts
People with Special Needs: Raising awareness of the abilities of people with special needs
NEWMIES: New and expecting mothers
Elderly Care & the Sick: Support for employees caring for family members
Interfaith: Faith-based employees
Seniors: Senior employeesDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 13 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.We continue to build capabilities and invest in global DEI development for our employees:
In late 2020, we hired the first Vice President of Talent and Diversity at Dexcom and established 
supporting roles to drive global initiatives.
We advanced several areas of talent development by:
• Equipping Dexcom leaders with a new leadership course that includes a module dedicated 
to diversity. At the height of social unrest during the summer of 2020, we created custom 
diversity guides and resources on topics about racism and inclusive leadership. In addition, 
our workforce continued to benefit from foundational diversity offerings through LinkedIn 
Learning and our EEOC/AAP Compliance training.
• Launching a coaching program through BetterUp, with intentional focus on expanding 
resources for female and minority talent. 
• Recruiting diverse candidates to the Dexcom internship program by sponsoring and partnering with diverse university student groups, including SHPE (Society of Hispanic 
Professional Engineers), NSBE (National Society of Black Engineers) and veterans’ groups. Our 
incoming internship class is composed of approximately 50% representatives from ethnic 
minority groups and 50% female.
• Providing a $10,000 sponsorship for the Hue Design Summit, a conference for Black 
developers and designers to foster relationships and build community. 
• Establishing a Supplier Diversity Training module for Dexcom full-time employees that was implemented in early 2021.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  14
We initiated targeted giving and spending efforts that incorporated the voice of our 
employees, including:
• A $250,000 donation to employee-selected diverse and inclusive organizations (United 
Nations Children’s Fund, Wounded Warrior Project, ACLU, NAACP, The Task Force for Human 
Health, and Equity Now)
• Approximately $175-$200 million spent on products and services from small business 
suppliers in 2020. In addition, the process for diversifying our supply chain has been 
enhanced through our Supplier Portal on the Dexcom supplier website (Dexcom Supplier 
Website), as well as through participation in virtual small business expos.
Focusing specifically on gender diversity, we closed 2020 with the following approximate representation across our  full-time workforce:
We look forward to updating you as we progress with our DEI initiatives and strengthen our global workforce.Country Female Male Grand Total
United States 1,800 (44%) 2,300 (56%) 4,100
Non-United States (OUS) 700 (50%) 700 (50%) 1,400
Grand Total 2,500 (45%) 3,000 (55%) 5,500Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 15 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
THINK BIG
People with diabetes face unique challenges throughout their lives. Our efforts to understand 
their pain points go beyond listening, as we encourage all employees to think beyond their 
limits—to explore unprecedented and unconventional solutions. This vision comes to life with our 
simple core value: Think Big. 
This mindset led to an ambitious goal early in our history: What if we could eliminate the need 
for people with diabetes to assess their glucose levels with painful fingersticks? With the 2018 
approval of our Dexcom G6 CGM system, we eliminated the need for customers to fingerstick‡ 
to calibrate their CGM. Based on internal estimates, we believe that the Dexcom G6 has enabled 
people with diabetes to safely monitor glucose levels while foregoing more than 3 billion 
fingersticks since its launch in 2018.
Our commitment to ‘big-picture’ thinking is core to our DNA. There remains a significant number 
of people with diabetes around the world who stand to benefit from our CGM technology, 
including those who manage their diabetes using intensive insulin therapy and those who do not. 
Therefore, we continue to enhance our product offerings, assess efficient ways to drive access 
and extend the benefits of our technology to new populations. 
Diabetes represents one of the most pressing healthcare challenges in the world today. The 
increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes can lower the quality of individuals’ lives while rapidly 
increasing global healthcare costs. 
‡If your glucose alerts and readings from Dexcom G6 do not match your symptoms or expectations, use your blood glucose meter to make diabetes 
treatment decisions.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  16
As the statistics below demonstrate, diabetes is truly a global epidemic that requires a commitment to innovative thinking:
Break the Epidemic* Only around 6% of people with diabetes live a life free from diabetes-related complications.
Diabetes 100% 
of the estimated 463 million 
adults globally with diabetes
50% Diagnosed
25% Receive Care12.5% Achieve 
Targets**6% Achieve Desired 
Outcomes  
Live a life free from diabetes-
related complications
*Actual rates of diagnosis, treatment, targets, and outcomes vary in different countries. **That is, recommended glucose levels. We believe the outcomes have not varied 
significantly since this framework was expounded by Hart JT, “Rule of halves: Implications of increasing diagnosis and reducing dropout for future workload  
and prescribing costs in primary care, “Brit J Gen Pract. 1992, 42: 116-119.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 17 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Access to Healthcare
Given the scope of the global burden of diabetes, Dexcom has identified that facilitating access 
to its CGM systems is a core element of our sustainable growth initiatives. Our Global Access 
team regularly engages with government and private payers, as well as certain regulatory bodies, 
to advocate for the millions of people with diabetes around the world by demonstrating the 
economic and quality-of-life benefits associated with covering Dexcom CGM technologies. We 
also continue to evaluate partnerships and strategies to broaden access to our technology in a 
manner that serves all stakeholders of the company.
The following initiatives represent core elements of our current strategy to expand access to 
Dexcom CGM technologies around the world:
Reducing Barriers to Therapy
In the United States, we have proactively engaged payers with offers to lower the 
cost of treatment in exchange for broader access to our CGM technology. We’ve 
advanced the following initiatives:Break of the EpidemicEstimated Adults with Diabetes (Global)Annual Healthcare Expenditures 
- Adults with Diabetes (Global)
Sources: IDF Atlas, 9th Edition (2019). https://www.diabetesatlas.org/en/. American Diabetes Association, “Economic Costs of Diabetes in the U.S. in 2017.”>2x 4.2MU.S. Healthcare Expenditures: People  with Diabetes vs. Those without DiabetesGlobal Diabetes Related  
Deaths (2019)400M500M600M700M800M
2019 2030 20452019: 463 million  
(9.3% of population)2019: $760 Billion2030: $825 Billion2045: $845 Billion
2030: 578 million  
(10.2% of population)2045: 700 million  
(10.9% of population)
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  18Advocating for Interoperability
Through longstanding collaborations with leading insulin delivery companies, 
Dexcom emerged as a pioneer of patient choice and open architecture platforms. 
Our strategy is driven by the belief that no customer should be restricted from 
using our CGM systems, regardless of their preferred method of insulin delivery. 
We continue to support device interoperability by maintaining an open 
architecture platform for developers and assessing options for additional 
collaborations with corporations and non-profit organizations.Pharmacy Access: We recognize that the pharmacy channel often offers a higher quality experience for Dexcom customers and prescribing clinicians. Dexcom customers can receive CGM supplies in as few as one or two days, compared to a process 
that can take multiple weeks through the durable medical equipment (“DME”) channel. As our preferred long-term sales 
channel, we have taken significant steps to open this streamlined pharmacy experience to our customer base. In 2020, nearly 
70% of Dexcom customers who received supplies through the pharmacy channel paid less than $60 per month and one-third 
had zero-out-of-pocket costs.**
Access for Type 2 Intensive Customers: We have demonstrated significant clinical outcomes that document the value of Dexcom CGM systems to the people with type 2 diabetes on mealtime insulin
.† † Our Global Access team continues to work 
diligently to enable access for this sizable portion of people with diabetes. In 2020, we advanced coverage efforts so that a 
majority of people with type 2 intensively managed diabetes in the U.S. now have coverage for Dexcom CGM systems.
Access for Vulnerable Populations: Our Global Access team continues to advocate for expanded CGM coverage for low-
income populations through state Medicaid programs. Since late 2018, we have advanced coverage in 17 additional states, 
closing 2020 with 40 states total that offer Dexcom CGM systems to certain eligible members. Additionally, in 2020 we 
established the Dexcom Patient Assistance Program in the United States to assist Dexcom customers who lost employment 
benefits as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Global Accessibility: We have obtained marketing authorization for Dexcom CGM technology in more than 40 countries and 
plan to continue to broaden our geographic presence around the world, including in regions that do not currently have access 
to leading diabetes management technology.
** IQVIA, data on file, July 2020. Based on monthly supply of Dexcom G6 sensors.  
††Beck RW, et al. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167:365–374. doi: 10.7326/M16-2855Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 19 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Expanding Manufacturing 
As the demand for Dexcom CGM technology continues to grow, our operations team has focused extensively on 
scaling additional capacity to enable further expansion of the markets that we serve. Through expansion of our sensor production capabilities, including the current development of our first international manufacturing location 
in Malaysia, we are establishing the foundation to benefit more patients over the short and long-term future.
Designing Product for Scale
The commitment to expanding access requires thoughtful action throughout the organization. In order to meet 
our ambitious capacity expansion goals, our Research and Development and Operations teams have collaborated 
extensively to adapt Dexcom G6 production and increase manufacturing yield. 
We have specifically designed our next generation Dexcom G7 CGM System to scale efficiently, as we look to 
expand the use of Dexcom CGM technology for diabetes management around the world. We look forward to the 
continued development of this system as a key initiative for our access efforts.
Demonstrating Clinical and Economic Outcomes
As we scale production capacity, we are also working diligently to demonstrate and expand awareness of our technology’s benefits. In 2020, our clinical scientists wrote or supported more than 30 peer-reviewed journal 
articles assessing the impact of Dexcom CGM systems in several different settings. 
In addition to clinical outcomes, we are working extensively to further demonstrate the ability of Dexcom CGM 
technology to contribute to economic savings in the global healthcare system. A preliminary pilot study conducted 
by Intermountain Healthcare demonstrated strong improvements in clinical outcomes, costs, and self-reported 
measures for a cohort of patients with type 2 diabetes using Dexcom CGM systems, compared to those measuring 
blood glucose via standard of care fingersticks.
‡‡
Expanding to the Broader Type 2 Diabetes Population and Targeting Chronic Disease Prevention
In order to address the global diabetes epidemic, we believe that we must bring Dexcom CGM technology to people with type 2 diabetes—and eventually, make it available as a tool to support broader population health 
and help prevent disease onset as well. We are currently working to demonstrate evidence of user engagement, 
health outcomes, and economic outcomes as we seek to expand access for all people with diabetes as well as the 
indications for use of our technology beyond diabetes.
‡‡Isaacson et al. Journal of Diabetes Science and Technology. September 2020.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  20Environmental Impact
At Dexcom, thinking big also means committing to operating our business in a manner that is 
responsible for, and protective of, the environment. As a company at the forefront of continuous 
glucose monitoring technology, we embrace the opportunity to extend our commitment to all of 
our stakeholders, suppliers and subcontractors. 
We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our operations and products, 
managing environmental risks, and pursuing sustainability initiatives. Our overarching 
environmental policy is to: “Respect and Protect the Environment”.
Conserving Natural Resources
Dexcom is committed to minimizing the global consumption of natural resources through 
proactive monitoring and sustainability training for all Dexcom employees. Wherever feasible, 
we try to reduce energy and water consumption to minimize our environmental footprint, 
while continuing to deliver world-class solutions to our customers, caregivers, and healthcare providers.
For example, our energy conservation program includes the replacement of older equipment 
with more energy-efficient models, and the design of energy and water conservation systems 
into new or remodeled facilities. 
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 21 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Reducing Waste
On a global basis, our teams have been actively mapping the lifecycles of product waste at our facilities, allowing us to implement 
programs to proactively reduce the amount of generated waste. Recycling and re-use initiatives have been initiated globally as well 
and include segregation systems to minimize waste and promote re-use.
As our CGM systems continue to advance, we are working to 
limit the need for incremental electronic equipment and reduce 
waste volume for each user of our products. For example, 
although the receiver unit that accompanies our CGM system 
is still available for patient use and required in certain markets, 
our innovative software development teams have designed out 
the requirement for a stand-alone receiver. Our programs also 
allow for customers to use their existing, compatible† Apple 
or Android smartphones or watches to monitor their glucose 
levels in real time. 
Additionally, our packaging and research teams have 
undertaken initiatives to reduce product packaging waste for 
future product launches. We are striving to reduce product 
packaging for our broad-based major product launch, the 
Dexcom G7 CGM System, and believe that the system can 
reduce packaging waste by nearly 50% per unit. However, we 
are not waiting for our next-generation system to improve our 
efficiency and waste reduction processes. In 2020, our teams 
achieved material reductions to the packaging footprint of our 
Dexcom G6 CGM System. Through design improvements, we were able to drive significant reductions in material utilization 
and greater distribution efficiency.2020 Reduction Achieved Relative to Prior Generation 
(2019 and Before)
3-Pack 1-Pack
Material usage per 
carton / carton insert-59% -65%
Volume of carton -15% -43%The Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) operations team has a goal of zero landfill of hazardous and medical regulated wastes from our manufacturing operations and internal use. We measure our performance against this goal and met our 
objective in 2020.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  22Total Recycled Manufacturing Waste in Pounds
2019 2020
245,908 2,856,305Other waste reduction initiatives have contributed to the reduction of our environmental footprint over the years and will continue 
under the supervision of our EHS operations team. This includes our dedicated effort to expand recycling initiatives for our 
manufacturing operations:
Reducing Emissions and Effluents
Dexcom is working to establish benchmarks for the global reduction of emissions at our facilities and strives to implement 
initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint. We are 
actively evaluating opportunities to reduce Volatile Organic 
Compound (VOC) emissions from our manufacturing 
processes and believe that our efforts to design and implement 
automated manufacturing processes will enable the reduction 
of per unit VOC emissions—even as we significantly scale our 
commercial operations.
Our efforts to reduce emissions extend beyond product design 
and manufacturing. We encourage and incentivize employees 
to use mass transit and provide a shuttle service between our 
San Diego locations and tripled the number of electric vehicle 
charging stations, further reducing emissions from individual 
car trips. We’ve also taken steps to facilitate the expansion of 
work from home arrangements with the recognition that such 
flexible work-arrangements have the long-term potential to reduce emissions. 
We have established procedures and programs to monitor 
and minimize effluents and a stormwater pollution prevention 
program, which helps protect the waters and beaches within 
the regions we operate. Our Spill Prevention Containment and 
Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan is updated annually to ensure that 
our production activities are considerate of these communities. 
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 23 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.• Significantly expanding and 
investing in the department that 
oversees our environmental 
sustainability programs for 
identification and mitigation of 
environmental risks
• Maintaining board oversight of our corporate social responsibility 
and sustainability initiatives 
through regular discussion with 
our Nominating and Governance 
Committee
• Implementing practices that reduce and recycle manufacturing and 
packaging waste
• Expanding studies of volatile 
organic compound (VOC) use to 
reduce emissions through volume 
reduction and/or substitution with 
lower per unit VOC materials
• Further developing our EHS global 
enterprise system for assessment 
of  meaningful metrics that track 
our progress against our operational 
goalsIn line with our commitment to 
continuously improve our EHS 
program, we have continued to 
undertake the following efforts:Education, Monitoring and Improvement
The Dexcom EHS operations team trains employees globally regarding sustainability-driven best practices and procedures. The team maintains a portal 
where employees can access information on our EHS system, environmental 
and safety policies, and waste management and occupational health and safety 
programs at any time. 
We also actively monitor all EHS programs and initiatives and work with 
regulatory agencies to align on applicable standards. We utilize a global EHS 
enterprise system to monitor injury rates, EHS risk assessment and reduction 
programs, regulatory compliance, and identify and prioritize EHS program goals 
to promote continuous improvement in our EHS performance. 
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  24BE DEPENDABLE
Quality
Dexcom seeks to exemplify quality in all aspects of the organization. While our end goal is 
the production of the highest caliber CGM devices that empower people to take control of 
diabetes, achieving this goal requires an even broader approach. It requires us to foster a culture 
where every Dexcom employee understands their essential role in the design, testing, and 
manufacturing of our devices that are used every day by our customers. We emphasize this 
commitment in the core value, “Be Dependable.”
Dexcom features the following key elements within its approach to organization-wide quality:
• Education and Awareness: Individual efforts are critical to upholding our company-wide 
standards for high quality products. We require all new employees to receive training on 
the company’s quality policy and objectives. We also provide continuing education and 
awareness to promote our culture of quality and inform our employees about changes that 
have the potential to impact the quality of our products and the effectiveness of our quality 
policies. We also encourage our employees to continue their formal education and routinely 
benchmark against best in class companies. Together, these efforts support a holistic 
embrace of the quality standards that define Dexcom as an organization.
• Quality Management System (QMS): We maintain a robust Global Quality Management System in compliance with applicable US and international regulatory requirements. This 
includes compliance with key regulations and standards like the FDA Quality System 
Regulation (QSR) and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 13485, the primary 
international standard for medical devices by which we and our facilities are certified. 
Furthermore, we have strengthened our Global QMS to align with our international growth 
by obtaining certification to the Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP) and have been 
recommended by audit for certification to the European Medical Device Regulation (MDR) by 
our Notified Body. We view our Global QMS as a foundation of sustainable business practices 
and a Dexcom core strength.
• Continuous Improvement: As a core element of our Global QMS, we undertake annual reviews of quality initiatives to ensure Dexcom compliance with evolving standards and 
continuous improvement of our processes and products. Certification under MDSAP 
demonstrates our compliance with regulatory requirements for Australia, Canada, Japan, 
and the United States. We are working toward a scope extension for Brazil, the fifth country 
currently participating in this program.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 25 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Recent Initiatives
In alignment with our commitment to continuous improvement and product 
quality, Dexcom continues to strategically invest in reliability efforts. We aim 
to achieve the highest level of quality and set the standard for CGM product 
excellence. We believe that our reliability initiatives will ensure that our 
products continue to offer our patients a superior customer experience along 
with exceptional performance.
Ongoing investments help ensure that our Global QMS is built for scale and efficiency. Most recently, we have expanded the use of global automated solutions to enhance several of 
the core aspects of our QMS, including non-conforming material management and audit 
resolution. 
Every step of our development and manufacturing processes are intended to meet and exceed customer requirements. We deploy robust and global processes aimed at monitoring 
and continuously improving, such as:
• Innovation and development processes
• Automated manufacturing processes
• Customer experience
• Post-market analyticsDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  26Employee Health and Safety
Dexcom is committed to creating a safe and healthy workplace and integrates occupational 
health and safety into our business planning, equipment design, decision making, and daily 
activities. We establish internal measures for our safety performance initiatives and strive for 
continuous improvement in the reduction of injury rates. 
Our EHS team built out a new communications system to enhance safety awareness, including 
an EHS Learning Center and safety intranet site, the launch of a global injury and safety concern 
reporting system, a new job hazard analysis program, and the implementation of safety standards 
for our new robotic manufacturing equipment. We continue to implement and expand these 
programs to further reduce the incidence of workplace injuries.
Through leadership commitment and investment of resources in support of workplace safety 
initiatives, our total US injury rate has consistently tracked below industry averages.
In addition, our EHS team has prioritized the scaling of both its office and industrial ergonomics 
programs. These initiatives include worker ergo-knowledge guides, enhanced training, an ergo-
break program, and new global ergonomic furniture standards. All new and renovated Dexcom 
global office facilities include adjustable sit-stand desks and monitor arms, and manufacturing 
equipment is designed with, and built to, specified ergonomic and safety standards.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 27 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.
Our COVID-19 Response
Although dependability is a Dexcom core value and something we always strive for, the COVID-19 pandemic brought its 
importance into the limelight. People with diabetes are at heightened risk for severe outcomes from the virus, making glycemic 
control especially important during this challenging season. Led by the coordinated effort of the Dexcom Central Emergency 
Response Committee (CERC), we set out to navigate the pandemic with three primary commitments: protecting our employees, 
serving our customers, and helping our communities.
Protecting our Employees 
• Protecting Our Employees
Shifted a majority of our global workforce to home-based arrangements
Provided home office reimbursement to employees to assist with the work-from-home transitionEnhanced safety measures globally for on-site essential employeesDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  28We continue to operate with these three overarching principles in view as we proceed in 2021. We also applaud the efforts of our 
colleagues and competitors across the healthcare space to advance vaccine development and global distribution. • Serving Our Customers
Ensured that our diverse base of suppliers positioned the company to maintain full manufacturing 
operations
Created the Dexcom Patient Assistance Program to assist US-based customers who lost 
insurance coverage due to COVID-19
Enhanced training to ensure that clinicians were equipped to use Dexcom remote monitoring 
tools in virtual care
• Helping Our Communities
Worked with the FDA to provide temporary inpatient use of Dexcom CGM technology during the COVID-19 crisis.
§§ Remote monitoring of glucose via CGM helps reduce healthcare provider 
exposure and preserve personal protective equipment (PPE) while assisting in the control of glucose levels.*** 
Provided a donation of facemasks worth $50,000 to the County of San Diego to support the 
county’s stock of PPE.
Donated $40,000 to Feeding America and Food Banks Canada through employee giving and a 
company match to support food insecure communities.
§§CGM devices have not yet been fully evaluated or tested (by DexCom or by the FDA) to the extent that would be required in standard circumstances for 
product development and marketing authorization.
***For a representative example, see the case study of Scripps Health:  
https://www.scripps.org/news_items/6981-scripps-health-launches-continuous-glucose-monitoring-in-hospitals-covid19.Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 29 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Dexcom is committed to operating with the highest standards of ethics, as captured in the core 
value, “Serve with Integrity.” This commitment extends to all aspects of the organization, 
including: the safety and effectiveness of our products, the way we serve and empower our 
customers and employees, our focus on innovation as we seek to address issues of customer 
accessibility to our products, and the way we communicate our story to our stakeholders. 
While oversight of the company’s ethics and governance structure begins with the Board of 
Directors and Executive Leadership Team, Dexcom expects all employees to foster a culture of 
accountability in line with our Code of Conduct.SERVE WITH INTEGRITY
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  30Board of Directors
The Executive Leadership Team, under the oversight of the Board of Directors, manages the 
implementation and communication of company policies that reflect our commitment to serve 
with integrity. Given their engagement and oversight of the company’s strategy, culture, and risk 
management, we maintain high expectations for our Board members. In addition to the roles 
described in the Corporate Governance Principles, our Board prioritizes the following:
Independence
We maintain a strong emphasis on director independence. Ten of Dexcom’s 
eleven current directors are independent and all four of our standing committees 
(Audit, Compensation, Technology, and Nominating and Governance) are 
comprised exclusively of independent directors. We have also designated a Lead 
Independent Director as a core principle of governance in order to maintain 
effective, independent oversight of the Executive Leadership Team.
Diversity
We believe that representation of the company’s diverse stakeholders is best 
achieved by a Board of Directors comprised of different genders, ethnicities, 
backgrounds, and experiences. Our current Board consists of leading experts in 
endocrinology, internal medicine, and digital health, as well as business leaders 
with financial, technical, legal and operational experience across the continuum 
of the healthcare, technology and consumer sectors.
Most recently, in 2020, Karen Dahut and Kyle Malady joined the Board of 
Directors. Ms. Dahut brings to the Board extensive leadership experience in 
technology, cyber, and analytics and currently serves as the Group Leader of 
the Global Commercial and Global Defense businesses at Booz Allen Hamilton. 
Mr. Malady currently serves as Executive Vice President of Global Networks and 
Technology and Chief Technology Officer at Verizon Communications Inc. 
Ms. Dahut and Mr. Malady are among the most respected leaders in their fields 
and bring a wealth of experience to Dexcom, helping to bolster our efforts 
around data infrastructure, cybersecurity, information technology, 
and connected solutions.Sustainability Oversight
In recognition of the unique role that we play as global corporate citizens, our 
Board oversees our corporate social responsibility and sustainability initiatives, 
with responsibility allocated to the Nominating and Governance Committee. 
The Nominating and Governance Committee Charter provides for, at minimum, 
annual review of material issues, risk mitigation, and company performance, with 
respect to corporate social responsibility and sustainability.reflect  our commitment  to serve  with  
integrityDexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
 31 Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.Dexcom’s Compliance Program
Dexcom promotes an organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct and adherence to applicable laws and regulations. 
The Code of Conduct, which is available in multiple languages, serves as the foundation for our program, providing a key resource 
for the development and accountability of our employee base. 
The Compliance Department also maintains several avenues that encourage employees to learn, speak up, and ask questions:
• Employee Training: All Dexcom employees are required to 
complete annual training on Dexcom's Compliance policies 
in support of our efforts to comply with applicable laws, rules, 
and regulations. This ensures that employees are equipped to 
meet or exceed our expectations for ethical business conduct. 
Employees can access Compliance training and applicable 
Compliance policies and procedures through our internally 
hosted compliance website.
• Multiple Compliance Reporting Resources: We promote a culture of ethics and integrity by welcoming questions and 
encouraging internal accountability. In addition to the internal 
compliance website, all Dexcom employees around the 
world can submit questions or file reports directly with any 
member of the Compliance Department, through a dedicated 
Compliance email address, or anonymously through our third-
party-hosted Compliance Helpline.
• Commitment to Non-Retaliation and Confidentiality: The Dexcom Compliance Department, in coordination with 
other relevant departments, monitors compliance with 
applicable laws, regulations, and ethical considerations and 
investigates all reports of Code violations or unlawful activity. 
We also explicitly prohibit harassment and retaliation against 
anyone who seeks advice, raises concern, reports misconduct, 
or provides information in an investigation.In 2020, Dexcom strengthened its global 
risk management efforts under the leadership of its Senior Vice President 
and Chief Risk Officer. Our enterprise 
risk management team conducts robust 
assessments of potential or emerging 
risks and assigns responsibilities 
for tracking and mitigating these 
developments across the company. Board Representation as of Fiscal Year-end 2020
Gender Diversity Underrepresented Communities
73% Male/ 27% Female 22%Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.  32Data Privacy
We are committed to preserving the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of personal data throughout its life cycle, from creation 
through disposition.
Employees help protect the privacy of personal data by following 
certain principles, including:
• Collecting and using the minimum amount of personal data 
necessary to achieve the business purposes for which the data 
was collected
• Keeping personal data only as long as necessary to achieve 
those purposes
• Sharing personal data only with individuals who have a 
legitimate need for it and are authorized to receive it
We are also committed to incorporating a privacy-by-design framework in our daily operations. This means that we proactively 
embed data privacy and protection principles into the design, 
operation, and management of all our products and systems. As 
we develop and maintain products and systems, we will continue 
to respect user privacy and keep our data collection practices 
open and transparent. To foster this, we maintain a Privacy Portal 
where all customers, healthcare providers, employees and other stakeholders can access their data or exercise various data 
privacy rights.
In order to implement the principles above and maintain the 
trust of our customers, we have established a Personal Data 
Privacy Program that requires annual training for our employees. 
This training serves to ensure that Employees understand their 
obligations with respect to personal data.
In 2020 we reached a significant milestone in our efforts to demonstrate 
our commitment to data security. SRI 
Quality System Registrar, an accredited 
registrar for ISO certifications, officially 
certified that the Dexcom Information 
Security Management System is in 
conformity with ISO/IEC 27001:2013. 
We look forward to the ongoing impact 
of this achievement as we target best 
practices for monitoring, reviewing, 
maintaining, and improving the Dexcom information security management 
system.
Dexcom, Inc. Sustainability Report, March 2021
  Disclaimer: Dexcom assumes no obligation to update the enclosed material after the date of this report.In addition to the core initiatives above, the following documents contain key information with 
respect to our commitment to integrity:
• The Code of Conduct also contains information with respect to:
• Dexcom Supplier Code of Conduct
• Anti-Human Trafficking Policy
• Conflict Minerals Policy
• Board of Directors Committee Charters:
• Corporate Governance Principles
• Executive Stock Ownership Guidelines
• Clinical Research Program and Standards
Ethical sales and marketing practices
Interactions with patients and healthcare providers
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
Political contributionsDiversity, equity and inclusion in the workplaceDiscrimination and harassmentSafety and healthEnvironmental sustainabilityAnimal welfare and testing
Nominating and Governance Committee
Audit Committee
Compensation Committee
Technology CommitteeDexcom, Inc. | Corporate Headquarters 
6340 Sequence Drive 
San Diego, CA 92121 
dexcom.comDEXCOM, INC.  
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
March 2021