2020
ESG Action Report
For the Well-Being  
of Patients
For the Strength of  
Our CommunitiesFor the Resilience  
of Our Business
For the Growth  
of Employees                 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 3
A Message from Our 
Chairman and CEO
I am tremendously proud to introduce the first AbbVie Environmental, Social & 
Governance (ESG) Report. It is intended to share the innovative ways our company makes 
a genuine and lasting impact for our patients, customers, employees and communities, 
both today and tomorrow. This report reflects our company’s principles and how we 
work with integrity and intention to advance long-term patient health and a sustainable 
business that delivers for our stakeholders.
While we knew 2020 would be a transformational year, we could not have predicted the 
many challenges that would come our way. And each time we stepped up, because we 
believe in leading by example. We take action when the moment calls for it, and we make 
strategic decisions to ensure our long-term success as a company, all while working to 
improve the health of society at large.
In 2020, we completed the acquisition of Allergan and became the fifth largest 
biopharmaceutical company in the world. The acquisition provides our company more 
scale and more product diversity, which enables us to continue our commitment to R&D 
and business development. During the global pandemic, we partnered with the global 
community to support COVID-19 R&D and relief efforts while always protecting the health 
and safety of our employees. We also ensured an uninterrupted supply of medicines to 
our patients and continued to advance our pipeline. We stepped up for our communities 
during a racial justice awakening, donating $55 million to support underserved Black 
communities across the United States by promoting education and health equity.
The decisions we made since the inception of our company in 2013 have positioned 
AbbVie as a leader in our industry and in our communities. And yet, we know there is 
a lot more to be done. We are driven by science to redefine the future of medicine, and 
we innovate with integrity to advance the long-term health of people all over the world. 
Over the next two years, we anticipate approvals for more than a dozen new products or 
indications – including five expected approvals in 2021 alone. This would not be possible 
without the 48,000 dedicated, diverse and talented employees who drive our mission 
every day. 
I am proud of what our company has accomplished in 2020, but I am even more excited 
about the future. As a research-driven pharmaceutical company, we discover and deliver 
innovative medicines that solve serious health issues and enhance people’s lives. Our 
commitment to science is a commitment to better our society, our communities and the 
lives of our patients and customers around the world. 
Sincerely,
Richard A. Gonzalez 
Chairman and CEO 
“I am proud of what 
our company has 
accomplished 
in 2020, but I am 
even more excited 
about the future. 
Our commitment 
to science is a 
commitment to 
better our society, 
our communities 
and the lives of 
our patients and 
customers around 
the world.”Table of contents  
About this Report
This report aligns with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Biotechnology & Pharmaceuticals industry standard. Information on alignment  
is included in the SASB Index table. Unless otherwise stated, data refers to  
fiscal year ending December 31, 2020, and does not include data from Allergan, 
which was acquired during the year and therefore outside the report boundary. 
For more information about AbbVie’s approach to ESG, please visit  
abbvie.com/societal-impact  or contact responsibility@abbvie.com .A Message from Our Chairman and CEO  3
Who We Are   4
Our Business   5
2020: A Year Unlike Any Other   8
• Our response to COVID-19  8
• Our commitment to racial equality 10
• Integrating Allergan     1 1
Science for the Health of Society 12
For the Well-Being of Our Patients  18
For the Growth of Our Employees  26
For the Strength of Our Communities 36
For the Resilience of Our Business  46
Looking Ahead  51
SASB Index  524 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 5
Who We Are
Our BusinessOur Principles 
Transforming Lives
We inspire hope and transform lives 
every day. We make decisions based 
on our deep caring and compassion 
for people, delivering a lasting impact 
to our patients, their families, our 
employees and the community.   
Acting with Integrity
We strive to always do the right thing. 
With uncompromising integrity at the 
heart of everything we do, we pursue 
the highest standards in quality, 
compliance, safety and performance. 
Driving Innovation
We innovate relentlessly in 
everything we do to tackle unmet 
needs. We invest in the discovery 
and development of new medicines 
and health care approaches for a 
healthier world.
Embracing Diversity  
& Inclusion
We treat everyone equally, with 
dignity and respect. Around the 
world, our employees embrace 
diverse backgrounds and 
perspectives, which allows us all to 
achieve our best. 
Serving the Community
We are proud to serve and support 
the community and do our part to 
protect the environment. We make a 
remarkable impact that's felt within 
health care and beyond.We are a research-driven biopharmaceutical 
company  that takes on the toughest health 
challenges. But we do more than treat 
diseases—we embrace the responsibility 
of making a remarkable impact on people’s 
lives through the innovative medicines and 
solutions we create together. This is driven 
by our compassion for people, commitment 
to innovation and inclusion, service to the 
community and uncompromising integrity.
At AbbVie, we care deeply for patients and 
customers, their families, our employees and 
our communities. We strive to always do the 
right thing, pursuing the highest standards in 
quality, compliance, safety and performance. 
We invest and innovate relentlessly to tackle 
unmet needs, creating new medicines and 
health care approaches for a healthier world.
Globally, our employees represent diverse 
backgrounds and perspectives, and our 
company values treating everyone equally, 
with dignity and respect, which we believe 
allows us to achieve our best. We proudly do 
our part to serve and support our communities 
and protect the environment to make a lasting 
impact in health care and beyond. Our mission is to discover and deliver 
innovative medicines and products that 
solve serious health issues and enhance 
people’s lives today and address the 
medical challenges of tomorrow. 
We strive to have a remarkable impact 
on people's lives across several key 
therapeutic areas: immunology, oncology, 
neuroscience, eye care, virology and 
women's health , in addition to products 
and services across our Allergan Aesthetics 
portfolio. Our state-of-the-art research, 
development and manufacturing centers 
across the world allow us to perform cutting-
edge research to move the best ideas 
forward faster and deliver transformative 
change. Our global headquarters is in North 
Chicago, IL, USA. We pride ourselves on a long tradition of 
strong corporate governance and financial 
controls, led by our board of directors. They 
play an active and vital role in overseeing 
our strategic direction and our performance 
against all objectives on behalf of our 
stakeholders. More details on our board  
and approach to Corporate Governance  
can be found in the For the Resilience of 
Our Business  section of this report or in  
our 2021 Proxy Statement .6 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 7
Nearly
U.S. patients received 
medicine at no cost 
through our patient 
assistance programs155 K2020 Highlights and 
Achievements 1
DiversityInc. “Top 50 Companies for Diversity” 
FORTUNE “100 Best Companies to Work For”
Great Place to Work “World’s Best Workplaces”
Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index
Science Magazine’s Top Employers
Working Mother “100 Best Companies”Workplace & DiversityDow Jones Sustainability World Index
FTSE4Good Index
S&P 500 ESG IndexEnvironment, Social and Governance
Civic 50
3BL Media "100 Best Corporate Citizens"
DiversityInc "Top Companies for Philanthropy"
FORTUNE/Great Place to Work  
“Best Workplaces for Giving Back”
PEOPLE’s “50 Companies that Care”Citizenship
FORTUNE 100
FORTUNE World’s Most Admired Companies
IDEA Pharma Innovation Index
Pharma Reptrak Most Reputable CompaniesBusiness PerformanceAbbVie by the Numbers  
in 2020 1 
1. Numbers include Allergan *5.8 billion adjusted R&D spend (excluding specified items)220 +
research partnerships49%
of management-level 
employees are women 
24%
reduction in carbon 
emissions since 2015 
baseline89%
of waste diverted 
from landfill
175 +
countries where 
our products help 
people and patients$45.8 B
in net revenues
donated to disaster 
relief organizations$35M
donations to nonprofit 
partners to support 
COVID- 19 relief$55M
investments with 
national and local non-
profits in support of 
racial equity$5.8B
invested in research  
and development* Our supply chain spans
countries and all  
50 U.S. states.129
people are treated  
with AbbVie  
products globally57M 30+
brands60+
conditions treated
$1. 3M
EcoVadis Corporate Social Responsibility 
Assessment Gold MedalEnvironmentRecognitions8 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 9
Our response to COVID-19
Assuring supply for patients
In 2020, when the scale of the pandemic became clear, 
continuity of supply remained one of our most critical priorities. 
Our Operations team maintains a balanced and redundant 
manufacturing network that enables us to closely manage 
manufacturing and supply chain resources around the world and 
help ensure our patients continue to receive an uninterrupted 
supply of medicines. During COVID-19, we readied our network 
and pre-purchased key materials to ensure patients can get  
their medicine.
In addition, we expanded our U.S. patient assistance program, 
myAbbVie Assist , to support qualifying patients who lost 
health insurance that covered their AbbVie medicine as a result 
of COVID-19. This important patient safety net ensured no 
patient would have their treatment interrupted due to COVID-
19-related financial concerns. More information on our patient 
assistance programs can be found in the For the Strength of 
our Communities  section of this report.
Protecting our employees’ well-being
The health and safety of our employees is always a key priority. 
As an essential business, we have continued working throughout 
the pandemic so our patients can access the critical medicines 
they depend on. To protect our employees, we follow health and 
safety guidance from state and local health authorities and have 
implemented a variety of safety measures globally throughout 
the pandemic, including:
Physical protections  
• Temporary office and facility closures with remote working 
where possible, and a phased and measured approach to 
reopening 
• Modifying workspaces and facilities to reduce air spread, 
including reconfiguring HVAC units
• Expanded cleaning protocols
Health checks and personal safety measures
• On-site and at-home COVID-19 testing for employees
• Temperature checks before entering any of our locations
• Personal protective equipment and physical distancing 
procedures to limit exposure
Communication procedures
• Regular communication with employees to ensure our 
approach, expectations and business impacts are clear• In the U.S., we developed a case management program for 
employees and contractors to monitor and report COVID-19 
symptoms, possible exposure or a positive test result to 
trained health care professionals and receive guidance on 
returning to the workplace
We did not implement any workforce or salary reductions due 
to COVID-19, so our employees remained financially secure 
throughout the pandemic. In addition to existing employee 
assistance programs, we created new resources, such as 
a COVID-19 Childcare Relief Fund, available globally to help 
eligible employees with childcare or remote learning expenses, 
as well as providing a variety of resources to help parents find 
childcare, support students with remote learning and help with 
their well-being.
Contributing to treatment and testing efforts
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we believe we have a 
responsibility to help address the COVID-19 public health crisis.
With extensive expertise in virology, small molecule and antibody 
therapeutics, our Research & Development (R&D) team reviewed 
our compounds, existing medicines and pipeline assets to 
evaluate their efficacy as potential COVID-19 treatments. We 
collaborated with industry, government, academia, health 
authorities and institutions globally to identify potential treatments 
and help address the medical impacts of the pandemic, including:
• Participating in the Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic 
Interventions and Vaccines (ACTIV) partnership led by the 
National Institutes of Health and the Foundation for the NIH 
• Joining the COVID R&D Alliance with others in the industry to 
help in the fight against COVID-19
• Partnering with Harbour BioMed, Utrecht University and 
Erasmus Medical Center to develop a novel antibody 
therapeutics to prevent and treat COVID-19
• Joining the Innovative Medicines Initiative’s Corona 
Accelerated R&D in Europe (CARE) consortium to support 
research and discovery of targeted medicines against 
COVID-19
• Launching a research alliance with Harvard Medical School 
to study and develop novel therapies against emergent viral 
infections, including those caused by coronaviruses and 
viruses leading to hemorrahagic fever
• Initiating a Phase 2 study of ibrutinib in patients with 
COVID-19 infection• In early 2020, we gave up all patent rights to KALETRA/
ALUVIA®, an antiretroviral medication for HIV which was 
tested by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a potential 
COVID-19 treatment. Given unprecedented demand for 
this medicine, releasing our patent rights allowed for other 
companies to manufacture KALETRA/ALUVIA® to meet 
demand. We donated over 100,000 units of KALETRA/ALUVIA 
globally as an experimental option for COVID-19 treatment.
To contribute to global testing efforts, we’ve provided COVID-19 
testing at some of our laboratories as well as 280,000 units 
of viral transport medium, which is necessary to preserve 
swabs prior to lab testing. For more on our R&D efforts and 
partnerships, see our website .
Giving back to communities 
In 2020, we donated $35 million to help support underserved 
communities and health care systems working to address the 
impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic. $5 million of this 
created the COVID-19 Community Resilience Fund  that 
supported 26 non-profits to help frontline health care workers 
and vulnerable populations in hard-hit communities. We donated 
$30 million to our nonprofit partners, International Medical 
Corps , Direct Relief  and Feeding America  which: 
• Created 27 mobile field hospitals across the United States 
and Puerto Rico
• Supplied 2.1 million units of personal protective equipment
• Distributed oxygen concentrators and other equipment in the 
hardest-hit European countries 
• Protected the most vulnerable, including the elderly, by 
enabling access to food and essential household supplies 
with minimal contactIn addition to our financial contribution, we donated more than 
350,000 surgical and N95 masks to hospital systems across 
major locations where AbbVie operates. We manufactured hand 
sanitizer and donated pallets of excess personal protective 
equipment to various institutions such as health departments, 
jails, long-term care facilities, medical centers, and veterans’ 
organizations. We also donated approximately 50,000 units 
of NIMBEX®, a neuromuscular blocker that is administered to 
intubated patients, to the U.S. government.
As part of our volunteering policy, we provided paid leave to our 
employees with relevant medical, pharmaceutical, R&D, science 
and public health experience who desired or were requested to 
serve as volunteers during the pandemic. We also doubled the 
AbbVie Foundation match for employee donations to non-profits 
supporting COVID-19 relief efforts, providing $2 for every $1 
employees donated to a qualified non-profit.2020: A Year Unlike Any Other10 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 11
Our commitment to racial equity
Integrating AllerganThe events of 2020 amplified our call-to-action around racial 
justice. AbbVie met the moment through both internal and 
external actions including clearly expressing our perspective 
and commitment , being in-service to the community and by 
appointing a Chief Equity Officer to drive company-wide change 
and awareness. We take deliberate steps to ensure we lead by 
example in promoting racial equity. 
We committed to delivering sustainable, meaningful impact to 
advance racial justice, education and health equity. Our $55 
million  in investments with national and local non-profits aim 
to create immediate opportunities and advance meaningful and 
lasting change.
• $5 million to NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund 
and the Equal Justice Initiative (EJI) to address issues in 
our criminal justice system. More information on our donation 
can be found in the For the Strength of Our Communities 
section of this report.
• $50 million to support health and education opportunities for 
Black and other historically underserved communities across 
the United States in collaboration with six nonprofit partners, 
including Direct Relief, University of Chicago Medicine's 
Urban Health Initiative, National Urban League, Year Up, United 
Negro College Fund (UNCF) and Providence St. Mel School. 
More information on our commitments can be found in the For 
the Strength of Our Communities section of this report. 
As an extension to our AbbVie Foundation employee matching 
program, we matched $3 for every $1 of donations to civil rights 
non-profits fostering racial equity. 
In 2020, we completed the transformative acquisition of 
Allergan, a global pharmaceutical leader focused on developing, 
manufacturing, and commercializing branded pharmaceutical, 
device, biologic, surgical and regenerative medicine products 
for patients and customers around the world. Allergan markets 
a portfolio of brands and products in key therapeutic areas such 
as aesthetics, eye care, neuroscience, women’s health and 
gastroenterology.
With this acquisition, the largest transaction in our history, we 
have an even greater reach and more opportunities to make a 
remarkable impact on people’s lives.  A larger and more diverse 
portfolio of brands allows us to expand into new therapeutic 
areas, including eye care and aesthetics, and build upon our 
existing leadership positions to benefit patient health. An 
immediate boost to scale and resources enhances our robust 
R&D capabilities, fuels our pipeline of innovative medicines and 
provides continued investment to advance the breakthroughs  
of tomorrow. “We can’t change the world, but we can make 
AbbVie a role model for fairness, inclusion 
and the rejection of bias and racism. We 
are committed to not only being a voice, but 
also doing the right things to fully embrace 
equality, diversity and inclusion and loudly 
reject racism and all forms of bias.”
– Richard Gonzalez, CEOIn September 2020, Allergan Aesthetics, an AbbVie company, 
and Skinbetter Science® announced the launch of a new long-
term, educational initiative – DREAM: Driving Racial Equity 
in Aesthetic Medicine ™. Case studies and data relevant to 
darker skin tones are grossly underrepresented in current 
educational materials and textbooks, which can lead to under 
or misdiagnoses for Black and Brown patients. The DREAM 
Initiative™ aims to bridge this gap and further the principles of 
racial and ethnic diversity, inclusion, respect and understanding 
in dermatology and plastic surgery. In addition, the program 
aims to identify different perceptions of beauty among racial 
and ethnic groups so that media, aesthetic providers and 
corporations can better understand and meet the aesthetic 
needs of all people.  
Internally, an important part of our strategy is to instill an 
inclusive mindset in all leaders and employees so we can realize 
the full value of our diverse workforce. In 2020, we increased 
awareness and learning across the company through listening 
sessions and virtual, inclusive learning series and expanded 
participation in our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). More 
information on our approach to Equity, Equality, Inclusion and 
Diversity can be found in the For the Growth of Our Employees  
section of this report. 
In addition to 30 new brands and entry into new therapeutic 
areas with new patients and customers, we have also gained 
~18,000 new colleagues, providing more opportunities to 
collaborate and develop as employees and as a company. Our 
new colleagues received AbbVie’s annual training on our Code 
of Business Conduct and conflicts of interest training, and we 
merged and harmonized the robust ethics and compliance 
programs of AbbVie and Allergan to best meet the needs of 
our combined business. Employees in relevant functions also 
received mandatory training on topics such as anti-corruption 
and anti-bribery, recognizing and reporting safety information, 
appropriate product promotion and appropriate interactions 
with health care providers and patient groups. We introduced 
additional development support to senior leaders who are 
managing increased integration and operational complexity.
The ESG data in this report does not include Allergan , unless 
otherwise noted, as we are still in the process of integrating our 
operations. We expect to be able to include consolidated data in 
the 2021 ESG Action Report. 12 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 13
We think about ESG through the lens of scientific stewardship. 
That means we consistently operate with the health of patients 
and the goal of enhancing people’s lives in mind. It means 
nurturing medical advancements to make possibilities real and 
innovating with integrity and intention to advance long-term 
health and business resiliency. In this way, we believe we will 
create a meaningful and lasting societal impact. Scientific stewardship at AbbVie requires that we see ourselves 
not only as individual scientists, researchers and business and 
health care professionals, but as global citizens of science.   
Our leaders  act as stewards of our ESG mission, and our 
people are committed to ensuring our research, innovations and 
collaborations can do the most good for the most people.
We evaluate our efforts relative to external frameworks 
such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, CDP  and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) . Our 
SASB Index performance is included as an appendix at the end 
of this report. Our commitment to science is a commitment to  
better our society 
At the heart of AbbVie lies a single guiding belief:  
Our commitment to science is a commitment to better our society. 
As members of the wide-reaching scientific community, we cannot separate our work 
from the world. 
We have responsibilities: 
• To break new ground and set new standards of care
• To research and innovate with integrity and intention
• To take care of our patients, our people and our planet 
Our pride resides not only in discovery and development, but in our ability to 
deliver—on patient outcomes and the needs of our times. 
In this pursuit, progress is our policy. We are committed to collaboration—with our 
communities, our patients and customers, our employees, policymakers, and the public. 
We are dedicated to diversity—to nurturing the careers of diverse talent, supporting 
diverse communities, and facilitating global scientific partnership. 
Each day, through scientific stewardship, we work to deliver sustainable solutions that 
improve the health of our business and the health of humankind.Our approach to ESG
Science for the Health of SocietyOur materiality mapImportance to stakeholders
Impact to AbbVieCommunity & Partner  
Engagement and ImpactSupply Chain SustainabilityHuman Capital Management 
• Employee Recruiting, 
Development & Retention
• Equity, Equality, Diversity  
& InclusionProduct Innovation
Product Quality & Safety
Patient Health & Engagement
Patient Access & Patient AffordabilityBusiness Ethics
Transparency, Accountability  
& Reporting
Environmental SustainabilityEnvironmental 
Social 
Governance Categories  VERY HIGH
HIGH
MODERATE14 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 15
Our ESG Framework is built around three foundational pillars 
that align with our enterprise goals and principles. These 
have been developed based on an analysis of our material 
issues, taking into account the topics of most interest and 
relevance to our company and our stakeholders – including 
our patients and patient organizations, employees, investors, 
regulators & government, payers & providers, suppliers and 
nonprofit partners.Collaboration with stakeholders is critical to our success—our 
goal is value creation through building engaging and long-
term relationships with all our partners and stakeholders. We 
engage in regular dialogue with a wide variety of stakeholders to 
understand their evolving needs, interests and expectations of 
AbbVie. From these interactions, we develop our understanding 
of material issues and identify additional opportunities to improve 
and make an impact.
We discover and deliver 
innovative medicines  that solve 
serious health issues and enhance 
people’s lives by pushing the 
boundaries of innovation, putting 
people and patients first, creating 
high-quality therapeutic solutions 
and ensuring their safety, efficacy 
and accessibility. 
Product innovation  
We strive to make a remarkable 
impact on patients and drive 
sustainable growth by consistently 
discovering and delivering innovative 
medicines that address serious 
health issues and enhance  
people’s lives. 
Patient access and patient 
affordability  
We believe everyone who needs our 
medicines should be able to get them.We unlock the full potential of 
diverse and talented teams—
and partners—to deliver today 
and into the future. We do this by 
attracting and retaining the best 
talent, embracing diversity of thought 
and through collaboration. We know 
that when we unlock the full potential 
of our people and our partners, we 
accelerate innovation, enhance 
people’s lives, and meet our business 
objectives. 
Human capital management  
We believe purposeful work drives 
meaningful change. We nurture 
diverse talent to solve the most 
complex health challenges and create 
remarkable impact in people’s lives.We innovate with integrity and 
intention to advance long-term 
patient health and business 
resiliency. We ensure that we are 
prepared for the future by operating a 
sustainable, agile business model and 
governance structure that anticipates 
and evolves in a dynamic industry 
and society. We are unwavering 
in assuring supply of innovative 
medicines to patients and life-
enhancing products to customers.
Patient health and engagement  
We continuously strive to improve 
health outcomes for patients around 
the world.
Product quality and safety  
We are committed to delivering  
safe and effective, quality products 
and medicines through robust  
quality systems. 
Business ethics  
We act with integrity in everything 
we do.Our ESG PillarsOur ESG Framework
Our material drivers*
 *In 2016, we conducted a formal materiality assessment. We recognize that material issues evolve over time. In 2020, we collected and assessed inputs from a range of internal 
and external sources to further identify and evaluate material issues. Our material drivers are based on the 2020 materiality assessment.         SDG Relevant sub-targets AbbVie’s role
3.2   End preventable deaths of newborns and 
children < 5 years of age
3.3  End AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and 
neglected tropical diseases; combat 
hepatitis, water-borne diseases and other 
communicable diseases
3.4 Reduce premature mortality from non-
communicable diseases through prevention 
and treatment; promote mental health and 
well-beingOur medicines treat respiratory conditions in premature 
newborns, HIV and hepatitis C and cancer. Our research on 
neglected tropical diseases, tuberculosis and malaria will help to 
directly address these targets. In addition, our philanthropy work 
includes supporting and strengthening health care systems.
Read more in For the Wellbeing of Our Patients and For the 
Strength of Our Communities.
4.1   Ensure all girls and boys complete free, 
equitable, quality education  
4.4   Increase the number of people who have 
relevant skills for employment, decent jobs 
and entrepreneurship
4.5   Eliminate gender disparities in education 
and ensure equal access to education and 
training for the vulnerable
4.A   Build and upgrade education facilities that 
are child, disability and gender sensitive 
and provide safe, nonviolent, inclusive and 
effective learning environments for allSupporting effective educational programs for underserved 
school-age children is a philanthropic priority for AbbVie and the 
AbbVie Foundation.
By leveraging our highly skilled workforce, we advance skill 
development for underserved students through mentorship, 
training and exposure to STEM projects.
Read more in For the Strength of Our Communities.  
5.1   End all forms of discrimination against all 
women and girls
5.2   Eliminate all forms of violence against 
women and girls in the public and private 
spheres, including trafficking and sexual and 
other types of exploitation
5.5   Ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities for 
leadership at all levels of decision-making in 
political, economic and public lifeOur five-year Equity, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EED&I) 
strategy is focused on creating a culture of equity & inclusion 
through education, removing barriers, creating differentiation 
and measurement. 
We work towards gender equity through activities such as our 
global Women’s Leadership Journey development program to 
help women progress into senior roles.
Our anti-discrimination, anti-harassment and anti-violence 
policies extend through our organization and to our suppliers. 
Read more in For the Growth of Our Employees.
8.1  Sustain per capita economic growth in 
accordance with national circumstances 
8.2  Achieve higher levels of economic 
productivity through diversification, 
technological upgrading and innovation
8.5  Achieve full and productive employment 
and decent work for all women and men, 
including for young people and persons 
with disabilities, and equal pay for work of 
equal valueWe have employees in nearly 80 countries and purchase over 
$14B in goods and services from a supplier network spanning 
129 countries and all 50 U.S. states.
We recruit and hire from historically underrepresented groups 
and provide economic opportunity and technical support to 
small and diverse suppliers.
Supporting communities is also a priority of the AbbVie 
Foundation. We partner with nonprofit organizations and engage 
our employees to support learning and workforce readiness 
programs, particularly in underserved communities.
Read more in For the Growth of Our Employees, For the 
Strength of Our Communities and For the Resilience of  
Our Business.        SDG Relevant sub-targets AbbVie’s role
10.2  Sustain per capita economic growth in 
accordance with national circumstances 
10.4  Achieve higher levels of economic 
productivity through diversification, 
technological upgrading and innovationEquality of opportunity is very important to us. This year  
we took a strong stance on racial equity in response to the 
urgency created by the events of 2020, including $55 million  
in investments with national and local non-profits addressing  
the issue.
Internally, we employed a Chief Equity Officer and have 
programs in place that aim to address historical inequities and 
provide equal opportunities for employment and advancements.  
Read more in A Year Unlike Any Other , For the Growth of 
Our Employees and For the Strength of Our Communities.
11.5   Reduce the number of people affected 
and substantially decrease the direct 
economic losses caused by disasters with a 
focus on protecting the poor and people in 
vulnerable situationsOur philanthropic work is focused on investing in long-term 
solutions that build community strength and resilience. For 
example, we have been making long-term investments in Puerto 
Rico to assist in recovery efforts following natural disasters and 
be better prepared for future disasters.
Read more in For the Strength of Our Communities and For 
the Growth of Our Employees.
12.2  Achieve sustainable management and 
efficient use of natural resources
12.4  Achieve environmentally sound management 
of chemicals and  wastes; significantly 
reduce their release to air, water and soil to 
minimize adverse impacts on health and the 
environment
12.5  Reduce waste generation through 
prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse
12.6  Encourage companies to adopt sustainable 
practices and integrate sustainability 
information into their reporting cycleTo operate sustainably, we must use natural resources efficiently 
and manage waste in a way that preserves the health of our 
environment.
We have set absolute targets for reduction of our carbon 
emissions, water consumption and waste generation and are 
actively taking steps to meet them. Through participation in CDP, 
we are transparent in reporting our environmental impacts.
Read more in For the Strength of Our Communities. 
13.1  Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity 
to climate-related hazards and natural 
disasters in all countriesClimate change will increasingly impact health and well-being 
globally. We continually evaluate the impact of climate change 
on our business. As a provider of essential medicines, we must 
minimize the impacts on our continuity of supply and have a 
governance approach in place to do so.
We anticipate climate-related risks and act proactively to 
mitigate them. We also support disaster relief partners to help 
to strengthen community resilience and recovery from climate-
related hazards.
We committed to join the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) 
and are working on setting ambitious science-based emissions 
reduction targets.
Read more in For the Strength of Our Communities.
16 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 17
We are committed to contributing to the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have identified eight SDGs  
that align closely with our actions.Our contribution to the SDGs2020 Highlights 1
15K
research hours donated 
to neglected tropical 
diseases, malaria and 
tuberculosis$5.8B
invested in research  
and development*new product approvals 
or indication expansions 12
significant research 
collaborations that 
achieved key milestones16
18 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 19
Nothing is more important to us than health. That’s why we are passionate about 
translating science into effective medicines that solve serious health issues and 
enhance lives. We deliver advanced, high-quality therapies and tailored support 
programs that put patients first.
Driving Innovation  
We innovate relentlessly in everything we do to tackle 
unmet needs. We invest in discovery and development 
of new medicines and health care approaches for a 
healthier world.Transforming Lives  
We inspire hope and transform lives every day. 
We make decisions based on our deep caring and 
compassion for people, delivering a lasting impact  
to our patients, their families, our employees and  
the community.Contributing  
to the SDGsFor the Well-Being of Our Patients 
$1.1M
177K
health care providers 
reached through independent 
education grantspatients andNearly
patients received 
medicine at no cost 
through our patient 
assistance programs155 KInnovating for our patients
Aligning with our PrinciplesWe approach our science with an unrelenting spirit to deliver 
life-improving medicines, inspiring hope and confidence for 
patients to live a brighter today and tomorrow. This requires 
innovation to address unmet needs and an unceasing 
dedication to continued progress. It also requires extensive 
investment in research and development, and a focus on 
the patient experience and what matters most to them. We 
empathize with and work to understand the journeys of people 
living with diseases so that we can meet their specialized needs. 
Innovation in science is at the heart of our commitment to 
patient health and well-being. Our responsibility starts with 
discovering and developing novel medicines and treatment 
approaches that make a real-world impact, and in 2020, we 
achieved 12 new product or indication approvals or expansions. 
These included new treatments for rheumatoid arthritis, 
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and previously untreated 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
The true value of a medicine is in the difference it makes in a 
person’s everyday life, so we work with patients and health 
care providers to understand the individual experience, define 
meaningful outcomes and pioneer new methods to measure 
them in accurate and relevant ways. We invest in new ways to 
bring patient perspectives into labs as we develop innovative 
treatments and methods to measure practical treatment 
outcomes. For example, wearable digital data collection tools 
provide objective measurements and reduce the need for 
patients to recall all details of their experience. 
To increase the scope of innovation, we work with partners 
that amplify the impact of our scientific progress. Whether 
through collaborating with smaller biotechs, teaming up 
with universities or joining forces with other pharmaceutical 
companies around the world, partnerships are a powerful 
path to scientific discovery and patient success. In 2020, 
we embarked on several new partnerships, including an 
oncology collaboration with the Danish company Genmab, an 
agreement with the Japanese biotech Sosei Heptares to study 
inflammatory diseases and an immuno-oncology agreement 
with the Chinese clinical stage biotech I-Mab.Uncovering treatments for blood cancers
As members of the HARMONY Alliance , a 
public-private network, we are helping to uncover 
opportunities to speed the development of new 
and more effective treatments for blood cancers.
Treatment sequencing in chronic  
lymphocytic leukemia
We’ve partnered with the Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Hospital in New York and 25 investigators from 
leading institutions worldwide to investigate 
the largest cohort data to date on treatment 
sequencing in chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
through the Collaborative Study of Real-World 
Evidence (CORE). 
Precision medicine for immunology
In the past decades, precision medicine has 
revolutionized how cancer patients are diagnosed 
and treated. By tailoring treatment to a specific 
disease driver, and taking into account a person’s 
genes, environment and lifestyle, researchers can 
target the right patients with the right medicine 
at the right time. We’re using cutting-edge 
technologies and a team of almost 200 researchers 
to expand precision medicine to the field of 
immunology . 
Tackling potential future pandemics
We’re working on small and large molecule efforts, 
leveraging internal capabilities, knowledge and 
expertise, and partnering with leading academic 
institutions to develop solutions to combat 
the next emerging infections . This includes 
researching ways to disrupt virus replication and 
the viral-host interactions that are essential for 
the viral life cycle and creating a large library of 
antibodies to try and identify those that can bind 
to and neutralize future viruses. We have also 
partnered with Harvard Medical School to study 
and develop novel therapies against emergent 
viral infections.Innovation  
programs  
in 2020 
1. Numbers include Allergan
*5.8 billion adjusted R&D spend (excluding specified items)NearlyKey Performance Indicators
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Research and development investment $4.15B $4.83B $5.09B $4.98B $5.8B
New product or indication approvals including indication expansions 9 7 9 9 12
Number of programs granted a designation by at least one major 
regulatory authority to expedite development or review 5 9 5 4 2
Percent of compounds in clinical development with a novel 
mechanism of action67% 67% 72% 72% 75%
Research hours donated to neglected tropical diseases, malaria  
and tuberculosis21,583 30,006 39,945 20,621 14,965
20 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 21
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) together with widespread 
tropical diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis impact 
close to two billion people globally, with 1.7 billion of these 
suffering from one of twenty NTDs. These diseases, which 
disproportionately affect people in low- and middle-income 
countries, are detrimental to both public health and the 
economic well-being of communities. Combating NTDs requires 
input, commitment and collaboration between a wide range 
of dedicated partners. That’s why we were one of the original 
signatories to the London Declaration on Neglected Tropical 
Diseases , a collaborative global partnership that aims to 
eliminate or control 10 NTDs. Hundreds of AbbVie scientists have donated nearly 15,000 
pro bono hours to help find solutions for these persistent 
global public health challenges. AbbVie’s Executive Council on 
Neglected Diseases coordinates our innovative technologies, 
diverse compounds for screening and scientific expertise. We 
collaborate with partners on drug discovery and development 
projects, offering our specialized skills and technical support 
for synthesizing and developing new compounds and sharing 
our library of chemical compounds. We work with them to 
conduct preclinical and early clinical development and testing, 
and clinical trials that can lead to new treatments. We also offer 
a 10-week summer internship program for up to 6-8 chemistry 
students working on NTD related research. 
Clinical trials should reflect the populations we serve. We 
are committed to researching and bringing treatment options for 
diseases that affect people around the world, including groups 
that historically have been underserved. Ensuring diversity 
means we can better meet the needs of our patients today 
and tomorrow. During the past year, we created a new role—
Director of Clinical Trial Diversity & Inclusion —to lead our 
efforts in this area.
To ensure we are designing inclusive study protocols and 
enabling under-represented populations to volunteer, we 
evaluate our clinical trial protocol eligibility criteria against 
real-world datasets. This involves analyzing the diversity of race, ethnicity, age and gender, and appropriate representation 
of people living with the diseases we are studying. If diversity 
gaps are identified, we will create a tailored plan to address 
them which may include enhanced community partnerships, 
clinical research staff education, investigator trainings, 
new site selection strategies and targeted patient 
outreach . We routinely re-assess clinical study demographics 
to determine if our efforts have made an impact, pivoting to 
different strategies if necessary.R&D efforts in neglected tropical diseases
Diversity in clinical trials Clinical trials
Clinical research is a key component of developing new 
medicines. Every year, tens of thousands of people worldwide 
participate in clinical trials of potential AbbVie medicines.  
We require all of our clinical studies to be conducted in a manner 
consistent with the ethical principles outlined in the World 
Medical Association’s Declaration of Helsinki , and to adhere 
to applicable standards set by the International Council for 
Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals 
for Human Use (ICH). This includes adherence to Good 
Clinical Practice, Good Laboratory Practice and Good 
Manufacturing Practice standards , which provide assurance 
that the rights, safety, well-being and ethical treatment of trial 
participants are protected.We believe in transparency regarding our clinical trial 
processes and results , whilst protecting patient confidentiality 
and the rights of our scientists. We share comprehensive 
information regarding our processes on our website  and 
share the results of all clinical trials, regardless of outcome, 
with health authorities and on the U.S. government’s publicly 
available registry.
Beyond safety, we aim to make our clinical trials as effective as 
possible – this includes new technologies to increase efficiency 
of process, broadening the diversity of study populations, 
accelerating recruitment, reducing cost and continued 
improvement in patient experience. Through our clinical 
development process, we gather actionable intelligence that 
allows us to make patient-centric decisions. 22 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 23
Patient health and engagement
Education and support for patients and  
their caregivers 
We want to enable patient care and support when it’s needed 
most, to facilitate the best possible health outcomes. To do so, 
we support educational programs that equip patients, their 
families and caregivers with the knowledge and resources to 
understand their diseases. We offer one-to-one education and 
support through personalized interactions, help patients adjust 
to the use of their medicine and provide lifestyle management 
support to promote health.
We offer a wide range of country-specific, disease-state 
patient programs  that provide meaningful, informative and 
empowering support to patients who have been prescribed 
AbbVie medicines. Our programs help patients more fully 
understand their disease, treatment, and the use of their 
medicine. In addition, these programs may help patients 
and physicians verify insurance coverage for select AbbVie 
medicines that often require prior authorization, help patients 
access financial assistance, and in specific situations, may 
dispense medicines directly to patients. 
Other programs also provide lifestyle management support 
to further promote health. These programs are tailored to the 
needs and regulations in each country and patient community. 
AbbVie personnel do not give patients medical advice and are 
trained to direct patients to their health care professional for 
any treatment-related questions.
To enhance the ways in which we teach patients to use 
their prescribed medicines, we use learnings and tools from 
behavioral science such as teach-back, an established health 
literacy technique. Teach-back helps us to better understand 
how patients interpret the information we give them, which in 
turn allows us to further adapt our communications to  
address needs.Patient assistance and access to medicines 
We believe everyone who needs our medicines should be able to 
get them.  We evaluate our pricing decisions on an annual basis, 
considering a range of factors on a product and country-specific 
basis, and offer a range of programs that help ensure access to 
our medicines. Our corporate growth strategy is primarily driven 
by reaching more patients with innovative new medicines . 
We provide co-pay assistance (regardless of income) to all 
patients with commercial insurance, with the majority of patients 
paying $5-10 per month. More than 90% of commercial patients 
are utilizing the co-pay assistance program. We also make 
donations to independent charitable foundations that provide 
co-pay assistance to patients in need, regardless of what type of 
therapy they are on.
To help patients having difficulty paying for their medicine, 
myAbbVie Assist , our patient assistance program, provides  
free AbbVie medicine to qualifying patients in the U.S.  
myAbbVie Assist serves as an important safety net for patients 
who lack insurance or whose health plans limit coverage for 
our treatments. This programs helps 99% of uninsured patients 
who seek our assistance and provided free medicine. For our 
Immunology treatments, the income eligibility requirements are 
600% of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL) or less than $159,000  
for a household of four people. For all our other medicines, 
eligibility requires 500% FPL or less than $132,000 for a 
household of four people.
During the pandemic, we made myAbbVie Assist contact 
information available broadly on national television, in 
newspapers and online to help people to continue receiving their 
AbbVie medicines regardless of financial and other obstacles. 
In 2020, myAbbVie Assist supported nearly 155,000 patients. 
We also help people access medicines through our community 
programs, as described in the For the Strength of Our 
Communities  section of this report.
To facilitate access to medicines globally, we contribute to the World Intellectual Property Organization’s Patent Information 
Initiative for Medicines  database. The database provides patent information on medicines for HIV/AIDS, cardiovascular diseases, 
diabetes, hepatitis C, oncology, respiratory conditions and other products on the WHO Essential Medicines List. Everyone should have access to quality and affordable medicines if they need them. We 
continuously strive to improve health outcomes and increase access to health care services 
and our medicines for people around the world. We respond to patient questions rapidly and 
provide people living with a disease robust resources that are easy to navigate, so they feel 
empowered, informed and in control, and can focus on their health.
Can you quantify the value of moments that 
matter? Our Health Economics and Outcomes 
Research (HEOR) team is a world-class leader in 
creating innovative, high-impact evidence that 
understands the human face of the patient data, 
to optimize appropriate patient access to AbbVie 
products. HEOR helps payers, providers, and 
patients understand how medicines perform in the 
real world. Using real-world evidence helps us to 
understand disease burden, treatment patterns, 
patient behaviors, and product performance in 
settings and populations that are representative of 
everyday clinical practice.
Our HEOR researchers utilize big data to identify 
patient patterns and generate evidence of the 
value of a new drug or other intervention for 
reimbursement. Such data falls into three broad 
buckets: clinical data, which helps evaluate a 
drug’s safety and effectiveness; economic data, 
used to evaluate its value; and humanistic data, 
typically focused on quality-of-life measures 
important to patients. This large and diverse data 
allows us to better understand the experience of 
patients often excluded from clinical trials, as well 
as evaluate treatment comparisons that may not 
have been made in a randomized controlled trial. 
Our combined research of clinical trials and real-
world evidence is an approach that can be used 
to provide a more comprehensive understanding 
of a treatment or disease, health care delivery, and 
ultimately, the a person’s experience on treatment – 
all to advance patient care.Erica Shipley is a patient assistance counselor 
for myAbbVie Assist. “Ninety percent of my job 
every day is being on the phone with patients,” 
she says. “I help them understand the process 
and make it as simple as possible because I 
know they have many other things on their mind.” 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, many patients 
called myAbbVie Assist concerning their sudden 
job loss and access to insurance. One call at 
a time, Shipley worked to understand each 
patient’s unique situation and to quickly provide 
solutions and further assistance. Although many 
challenges burden patients with chronic and life-
threatening diseases during this unprecedented 
crisis, AbbVie strongly believes that access to 
their medications shouldn’t be one of them. 
Shipley knows the importance of her work as the 
world continues to deal with COVID-19. “It feels 
really good to work for a company that cares this 
much about patients. I love my job, and I love 
knowing that I’m helping patients live their  
lives again.”Quantifying 
what matters 
mostHelping patients 
one call at a time 
Key Performance Indicator: Expanding access to health care and our medicines
 2016 2017 2018 2020 2021 1
U.S. patients provided medicine at no cost through our patient 
assistance programs1 78,745 76,692 80,871 89,122 154,922
1. Includes patients who received medicine at no cost from the Allergan Patient Assistance Program24 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 25
Independent healthcare grants
We aim to make a remarkable impact on the lives of patients, 
with a focus on supporting independent educational grants 
and continuing medical education. Our global grants and 
charitable donations ensure that both physicians and patients 
have access to meaningful independent educational resources 
around new and emerging sciences and standards of care that 
contribute to improved health outcomes. 
In 2020, we reached more than 1.1 million patients  and more 
than 177,000 health care providers through independent 
education grants. More information on the issues we support 
through our grants, process of application and details of grants 
given in 2020 can be found on our website.
We also provide funding for fellowships that allow health 
care providers who are new to their fields to continue their 
training and increase their experience and knowledge in 
their specialties of interest. Our hope is to close the gap in 
under-resourced fields by providing opportunities for the next 
generation of providers. We also support independent scientific 
and medical education programs that offer unbiased continuing 
education for experienced health care providers and scientists 
on current, new and emerging science.
In addition, we support nonprofit organizations with charitable 
donations that provide patients, loved ones and caregivers with 
necessary information and tools to manage their diseases. 
These resources empower them to be active participants in 
their health journeys. Some of the nonprofit organizations 
providing impactful programming include the National 
Parkinson’s Foundation, Arthritis Foundation, PACKHealth, 
Leukemia Research Foundation and CancerCare .Upholding the highest quality standards
We have robust systems in place to ensure the medicines we manufacture are of high quality and available when patients need 
them. The AbbVie Quality Council  oversees our quality strategy and direction across AbbVie. Our Quality Council is accountable 
directly to our CEO and is comprised of the heads of quality from R&D and Operations. Within these two functions, we have Quality 
Assurance Groups  for our various sub-units, to ensure a quality culture is fully embedded throughout all our activities. 
The principles and structure of our integrated enterprise Quality Management System (QMS) are outlined in our Global Quality 
Manual, available to all our personnel. The QMS complies with all applicable global standards and regulations (GxP) including the 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO). 
To ensure quality and regulatory compliance, AbbVie manufacturing 
sites receive both internal and external inspections and audits 
from major regulatory health authorities such as the U.S. FDA, the 
European Medicines Agency and the Japanese Pharmaceuticals 
and Medical Devices Agency. In 2020, these audits had no findings 
resulting in production stoppages. We take strong, proactive 
measures to assess and maintain the security of our supply chain, 
as described in the For the Resilience of Our Business section of 
this report.
Once our medicines are approved and marketed, we maintain a 
robust pharmacovigilance program to ensure continued safety. 
Our integrated, multi-disciplinary approach in collaboration with 
academic scientists, health authorities and industry peers, as 
well as advanced technologies, is designed to identify potential 
safety signals early and minimize risk to patients. We routinely 
achieve over 98% on-time expedited reporting of adverse events 
to FDA and the European Medicines Agency (EMA). In 2020, our 
Pharmacovigilance and Patient Safety teams advanced a key 
initiative to use large observational data sets to advance our post-
marketing safety capabilities. 
We also take action to address any risks of our medicines being 
counterfeited or diverted. And in 2020, we provided education and 
training to more than 685 employees and 967 healthcare providers 
and law enforcement officials in higher-risk geographies on the 
social and health risks of these issues as well as common illicit 
trade practices and security protocols.
Our goal is to have no patient-impacting shortages and to ensure 
patients have the medicines they need when they need them. Our 
assurance of supply program is designed to help us maintain supply 
even in unpredictable circumstances, such as during COVID-19. 
We identify and qualify backup suppliers, scan the environment 
for potential risks and plan for alternate scenarios. In 2020, due to 
our early action in pre-purchasing key materials, we maintained a 
consistent supply to meet patient needs throughout the pandemic.Providing independent 
healthcare grants to help 
respond to the challenges 
of COVID-19
This year, we provided a number of grants for 
organizations responding to the challenges of 
COVID-19. These include: 
‘Tales from the Trenches’ continued learning
To help health care providers and administrators 
responsible for the care of patients with cancer, the Rush 
University Medical Center prepared a continued learning 
course on COVID-19’s Impact on Cancer Care and the 
Rise of Telemedicine. The virtual discussion-based course 
shares the real-world experiences of panelists on effective 
approaches to adjusting to the current environment in terms 
of both clinical and operational needs. 
Partnership to End Addiction
We are a long-time supporter of Partnership to End 
Addiction . The organization saw an immediate increase in 
substance abuse following the start of the pandemic. Our 
grant allowed them to respond to the increased need for 
family support and mental health services and addressing 
addiction in the home.
Global Healthy Living Foundation
The Global Healthy Living Foundation  aims to improve the 
lives of people living with chronic conditions. The pandemic 
is especially stressful for those living with chronic conditions 
who may be more vulnerable to the virus. With help from 
our grant, the organization developed a COVID-19 patient 
support program offering information and support for all 
those considered vulnerable to COVID-19. 
COVID-19 Global Rheumatology Alliance
The COVID-19 Global Rheumatology Alliance  is an 
international effort to collect and disseminate accurate and 
comprehensive knowledge to advance rheumatology care 
in the COVID-19 pandemic. The information collected will 
help guide rheumatology clinicians in assessing and treating 
patients with rheumatologic disease and in evaluating the 
risk of infection in patients on immunosuppression.Core elements of  
our quality system
Risk management
Management 
responsibilities
Process performance  
& product quality
Corrective &  
preventive action
Change management
DocumentationOur ability to solve complex challenges is directly linked to the diversity and 
skills of our dynamic talent. The wide range of knowledge, perspectives and 
capabilities that our employees bring is critical to our success in both the short 
and long term. It is how we advance our thinking and our outcomes.For the Growth of Our Employees
2020 Highlights
33%
of our U.S. workforce is 
from an underrepresented 
population54%
women in our global 
workforcewomen in management 
positions49%
women in top 
management positions35%
26 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 27
79Flexible working 
opportunities offered in 
countriesEmbracing Diversity & Inclusion  
We treat everyone equally, with dignity and respect. Around the world, our 
employees embrace diverse backgrounds and perspectives which allows us all 
to achieve our best.Contributing to the SDGs Aligning with our Principles
Dow Jones 
Sustainability 
Index  (DJSI) leader 
in occupational 
health and safetyOur culture and approach
For an innovation-driven company like AbbVie, the diversity 
of knowledge, ideas and capabilities that employees bring 
are critical. To maximize the performance of individuals and 
teams, we help them build strategic skillsets and leadership 
capabilities, foster employee engagement and amplify 
an inclusive culture. We invest in our employees through 
competitive compensation, benefits and employee support 
programs, and provide a safe working environment that 
supports their well-being.
By centering our culture on the steadfast belief that how we 
work with each other and achieve results matter, we foster a 
high performing, fulfilled workforce that fuels our business 
performance. Our culture is built upon these fundamental 
guideposts:
• Our Principles , which represent who we are and what we 
stand for: transforming lives, acting with integrity, driving 
innovation, embracing diversity and inclusion and serving  
the community. • The Ways We Work , a core set of behaviors that sets clear 
expectations for all employees – reinforcing that how we 
achieve results matters. Integrated into all talent processes, 
they form the basis for assessing performance, prioritizing 
development and ultimately rewarding employees. 
• Our Talent Philosophy , which guides how we lead and 
develop talent at AbbVie. 
Our focus on developing this culture has created strong 
employee engagement, which has a positive impact on our 
reputation, business performance and the delivery of our 
business objectives. We conduct an Employee Survey every 
two years to gather feedback from employees about our 
culture, approach and performance in various areas. In 2020, 
in an abbreviated survey, 84% of employees indicated that they 
view AbbVie as a great place to work and reported feeling a 
sense of personal accomplishment in their work. Employees 
also favorably viewed AbbVie’s response to COVID-19 (82%), 
commitment to racial equity (80%) and integration of Allergan 
(82%). See A Year Unlike Any Other for more information. 28 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 29
Cultivating a diverse and  
inclusive workforce
Equity, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Framework and Strategy “To maximize every 
employee’s potential 
at AbbVie, we need to 
empower everyone to be 
themselves in their work 
environment; to provide a 
space where all are treated 
with respect and dignity. 
When we remove any 
potential roadblocks, we 
pave the way for unlimited 
thinking, more capability, 
and “best-in-class” 
mindsets.”
– Rae Livingston, Chief Equity OfficerEquity, equality, diversity and inclusion (EED&I)  is 
fundamental to who we are and how we operate. This includes 
valuing diverse perspectives, creating an inclusive culture and 
treating all employees with dignity and respect. At AbbVie, 
having a diverse and inclusive culture is a business imperative. 
It is not only the right thing to do, it strengthens our ability to 
innovate and is crucial to our ability to deliver now and into 
the future. Developing and bringing innovative, life-changing 
medicines to patients requires diversity of thought – and 
diversity of thought comes from a diverse workforce. Additionally 
important, we serve a wide variety of patient populations around 
the world and it is crucial that as a company, we reflect them and 
represent their voices.
That’s why we’ve made a Commitment to Equity, Equality, 
Diversity & Inclusion  based on our corporate principle of 
Embracing Diversity & Inclusion. We’ve also signed three 
commitments—the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion ™ 
pledge Paradigm for Parity ® and Business Coalition for the 
Equality Act .
Our five-year EED&I strategy , launched in 2019, focuses 
on specific areas of opportunity in driving awareness and 
understanding, attracting, developing and engaging talent, 
and creating connections and community . Each of these 
areas have specific objectives and associated initiatives and 
include implementation plans organized by business function 
and geography. The strategy and its implementation are driven 
and overseen by our CEO, Chief Equity Officer, and the Executive 
Leadership team, who take accountability for our performance 
in this area. To reinforce this accountability, in 2020 our senior 
leaders committed to formal EED&I strategy and execution 
goals. They also participated in EED&I Immersion sessions 
to enhance their own learning and understanding of equity, 
equality, diversity and inclusion.
Given the unparalleled complexity of 2020, we hosted listening 
sessions  for thousands of employees so everyone had a forum 
for their voices to be heard. This feedback, with other key inputs, 
has shaped our areas of focus for 2021 and beyond. We also 
made a $55 million, multi-year commitment to help organizations 
working to address racial inequity, as described in A Year Unlike 
Any Other .
Awareness & 
Learning
Removing Barriers  
& Obstacles
Creating 
Differentiation 
Measuring & 
SustainingDrive Awareness 
& Understanding
Instilling an 
inclusive mindset 
in all leaders and 
employeesAttract & Source 
Talent
Proactively finding 
and engaging top 
talentDevelop & 
Engage Talent
Creating 
opportunities for 
talent to thriveCreate 
Connections & 
Community
Bringing people 
together to 
promote inclusionEquity, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Strategic Priorities
Enterprise Initiatives
Functional/Local Implementation PlansEquity
Focusing on a culture of equity and inclusion through education, removing barriers, creating  
differentiation and measurement. Equity is embedded in everything we do.30 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 31
Our Employee Resource  
Groups (ERGs)
AbbVie Pride embraces all LGBTQ+ employees by fostering a safe, 
supportive and educated workplace. We encourage all our LGBTQ+ 
colleagues to bring their whole, authentic selves to work. Allies 
create a supportive and inclusive environment, supporting the 
LGBTQ+ community in visible ways including furthering education 
around LGBTQ+ issues and fostering connectivity and an internal 
sense of community. In 2020, the members of PRIDE voted the 
recipients of their annual $100K AbbVie Foundation grant to be  
The Trevor Project, and Heartland Alliance. 
“What speaks volumes to me is that our PRIDE ERG sponsors 
are comprised of mostly high-level vice presidents and senior 
executives who are extremely supportive of our LGBTQ+ 
community… So, this inclusive culture really trickles out from 
the top down and is a reflection of how our 
executive leadership team embraces this 
EED&I mindset.”
Robert Shields (He/Him/His)  
Associate Director, Consumer Marketing and 
PRIDE Career LeadAbility at AbbVie focuses on advocacy, inclusion and uniting 
employees with disabilities, caregivers and other allies. The group 
works with our leaders to find employment opportunities for people 
with disabilities and provide opportunities for them to build their 
careers. This includes targeted education and training to equip 
people leaders and their teams to build inclusive environments. 
Ability at AbbVie spotlights the ability and contributions of our 
employees, rather than their physiological traits. In 2020, Ability at 
AbbVie allocated their $100K AbbVie Foundation grant to Orchard 
Village and The Nora Project.
“Ability at AbbVie enables me to connect with and share ideas 
and resources with other individuals like myself who have 
children or family members with disabilities and are facing 
similar challenges while balancing career.”
Marianne Sutcliffe  
Vice President, Multi-Channel,  
Marketing Operations, and Media
AHORA is dedicated to growing and strengthening our Latinx 
workforce by supporting the leadership and development skills of 
members, increasing cultural awareness and visibility within the 
organization and providing community assistance and outreach. 
Professional development activities include “Café con Leche” 
talks with our leadership, seminars led by university partners and 
collaboration with key external organizations. In 2020, AHORA 
allocated their $100K AbbVie Foundation grant to Cristo Rey and 
Hispanic Scholarship Fund. 
“It gives Latinos a voice and a platform to be heard along with 
opportunities to allow for professional and 
personal growth.”
Cylia Troche  
Finance Manager, Legal and Chair of AHORAAsian Leadership Network (ALN) promotes the recruitment, career 
advancement and professional development of Asian, Asian-
American and Pacific-Islander employees and provides a platform 
for their voices to be heard. With the rise of anti-Asian hate in 
2020, the ALN has become even more important for its members. 
During the year, the group partnered with the other ERGs to draft a 
solidarity statement to show that we stand united at AbbVie and do 
not condone any form of racism. In 2020, ALN allocated their $100K 
AbbVie Foundation Grant to NAAPIMHA and Apna Ghar.
“The intersectionality where we all co-exist is really important 
in driving inclusion and stopping hate and 
discrimination for everyone. The solidarity 
statement is very powerful because I know 
I have support from all the ERG leaders, 
AbbVie’s leaders and my fellow colleagues.”
Lis Rakanovic  
Senior Compliance Analyst and ALN Co-chairOur AbbVie military veterans bring highly valuable skills to our 
workplace, and we support those who serve in the Guard and 
Reserves. We participate in the U.S. Department of Defense 
SkillBridge training program, which allows eligible active-
duty service members to gain valuable work experience by 
job shadowing. We also support the Department of Defense’s 
Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve program, as well 
as several other programs that support veterans and service 
members transitioning to other employment. In 2020, AbbVie 
Veterans allocated their $100K AbbVie Foundation grant to 
Midwest Veterans Closet, and Lake County Veterans and  
Family Services.
“AbbVie recognizes veterans possess essential skills that 
seamlessly translate to the organization, 
such as leadership, responsibility, teamwork, 
integrity, selfless service, dedication, agility 
and problem solving.”
Michelle Raine-Shepherd  
Manager, Call Planning/Targeting and Planning, 
and Chair of AbbVie VeteransOur ERGs help foster a diverse and inclusive environment where every voice is heard and valued. With a focus on career, 
community, company impact and culture – our ERGs help drive business results while also building a sense of community. 
They also focus on mentoring, professional development, talent attraction and networking. 
Black Business Network (BBN) promotes career advancement 
and professional development, encourages thoughtful discourse, 
shares cultural education and provides a safe place for Black 
employees. Among other initiatives in 2020, BBN provided a forum 
for dialogue on race, allyship and how each of us can be part of the 
solution and can engage in courageous dialogue so we can all do 
our part at work or home. In 2020, the BBN allocated their $100K 
AbbVie Foundation Grant to Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metropolitan 
Chicago and The Fuller Center for Housing. 
“It provides ongoing opportunities, career development, early-
career mentoring and sponsorship.”
Tony Shaw  
Regional Sales Director and BBN Chair
Women Leaders in Action (WLA) strives to be a resource that 
empowers women to take control of their career journeys and 
shape their own futures. The group hosts many events throughout 
the year to support skills development such as Executive Series 
networking, resume writing techniques, stress management 
workshops and mentoring programs. In 2020, the group focused 
on how members could drive impact within their teams. Driving awareness and understanding
An important part of our strategy is to instill an inclusive mindset 
in all leaders and employees so we can realize the full value of our 
diverse workforce. We prioritized learning and education across the 
company by launching two new virtual learning series in 2020— 
‘Impact through Inclusion’ and ‘Inclusive Culture’.  Our Impact through 
Inclusion Learning Series comprised of two awareness sessions 
in the United States: ‘Stand by Me’ completed by more than 18,000 
employees and ‘Talking Race’, completed by more than  
5,000 people leaders within four months. Over 6,000 employees 
globally completed AbbVie’s Inclusive Culture Learning Series. 
Our Black Business Network (BBN) Employee Resource Group  
led meaningful educational opportunities to help bring greater 
awareness to the AbbVie community, and established differentiated 
programming for greater impact. We also hosted notable and 
accomplished external speakers to provide additional awareness and 
learning opportunities for all employees. 
Attracting and sourcing talent
In 2020, we expanded our diversity recruiting strategy to include a 
dedicated team and are expanding our focused partnerships with 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) as well as 
Hispanic Serving Institutions . We also provide emerging student 
leaders with opportunities for career development, mentoring 
support and to be immersed in our AbbVie culture.
Developing and engaging talent
In 2020, we continued to develop and engage our diverse talent 
through initiatives such as our global Women’s Leadership Journey , 
which provides a broader awareness of and exposure to the skills and 
perspectives needed to excel into senior roles.
Our Executive Diversity Mentoring Program (EDMP ) pairs high 
performing, high potential diverse talent with our top executive 
leaders for a one-year mentoring partnership. Through this program, 
mentees gain insight into executive-level thinking at the enterprise-
level and cross-functionally and engage in direct dialogue with 
successful leaders and influencers. This year, we expanded our 
existing Executive Diversity Mentoring Program and launched a 
formal Sponsorship program—creating more opportunities for 
our talented pipeline to learn and grow while being supported by 
successful leaders.
Creating connections and community
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)  promote awareness and 
appreciation of our diversity, ensuring people of all backgrounds 
can develop and thrive. Our seven ERGs are open to all employees, 
whether they identify as part of the represented group or as an 
ally. With a focus on nurturing an inclusive culture where every 
voice is heard and valued, ERGs create connections and build 
community by hosting awareness events, provide leadership and 
career opportunities and promote diversity, inclusion and cultural 
awareness. In addition, the AbbVie Foundation annually provides 
each resource group with a $100,000 grant , to distribute to the 
nonprofit partners of their choice. Community impact through the empowerment of young girls and 
women is also an important element. In 2020, the WLA allocated 
their annual $100K grant from the AbbVie Foundation to Dress for 
Success, a global nonprofit organization dedicated to empowering 
underprivileged women to achieve economic independence and 
the Chocolate Chips Association whose mission is to instill a 
passion for STEAM subjects in girls.“WLA is a forum for women and allies to come 
together to learn, listen, share and challenge 
each other. We believe in the power of stories, 
and that each of us has a unique story to share.”
Xongi Phaleng   
Business unit manager, Immunology and  
WLA South Africa, Chair 
32 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 33
Key Performance Indicators
Key Performance Indicators: Talent attraction, retention & development
U.S. workforce by ethnicity 1 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Total employees1 28,939 29,777 30,612 30,776 48,0001
% women globally1 52.9% 53.4% 53.2% 53.3% 54%
% women in management positions (manager level and above)1 44.7% 46.9% 47.1% 48.0% 49%
% women in Director and Manager positions 1,2 – – – – 50%
% women in VP and above positions1 35.0% 37.9% 34.8% 34.6% 35%
% women in management positions in revenue-generating functions1 ,2 – – – – 48%
% women in STEM- related positions 1,2 – – – – 53%
%  U.S. employees who are members of underrepresented 
populations 1– 30.1% 31.4% 32.0% 33%
% U.S. employees who are veterans 3.2% 3.4% 3.8% 3.8% 4%
% U.S. employees who have disabilities 0.9% 1.2% 1.2% 1.2% 2%
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Overall turnover rate 9.2% 8.4% 8.6% 11.1% 8%
Voluntary turnover rate 5.9% 5.3% 5.5% 6.6% 4%
Average hours of training and development per FTE 7 28 28 29 29 
Average amount spent on training and development per FTE (US$) 1590 1620 1650 1690 1750
Number of new hires – – 3000 3400 3400
Percentage of open positions filled by internal candidates 25.7 30.7 27.1 31% 30% 
Employee engagement rate* 81% – 84% – –
Percent of employees who indicate that AbbVie equips them well to 
perform in their role*76% – 79% – – Share in total workforce  
(as % of total workforce) Share in all management positions 
(manager level and above as % of 
total management workforce) 
Asian 17% 20%
Black or African American 6% 4%
Hispanic/Latinx 9% 5%
White 67% 69%
Other (includes Native American/Alaska Native, Native 
Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races)2% 2%1. This number includes Allergan
2. New KPI for 2020, we did not track data historically
1. This number includes Allergan*Source: Employee Survey, which is conducted every two years. We conducted an abbreviated survey in 2020. Full survey results will be available in the 2021 ESG Action Report.
Developing our people
We believe in a development-focused culture, where employees 
have opportunities to learn, grow and find purpose. We take 
a personalized approach to development, identifying each 
employee’s individual development needs, encouraging 
employees to set a learning goal and prioritizing development 
opportunities aligned with their interests. This allows us to offer 
highly relevant opportunities that make a difference to employees’ 
success and allows them to grow their careers and contribute to 
their fullest potential.For all employees, our award-winning, global program, ‘Learn. 
Develop. Perform.’ (LDP)  offers webinars, online tools and 
mobile resources to help employees learn the necessary skills 
and capabilities to be their best. In 2020, we moved all training 
resources online in response to COVID-19 and 59% of global 
employees regularly engaged with LDP resources. All employees 
also have access to a suite of career development materials that 
enable self-guided planning to define career interests, investigate 
job openings and identify opportunities for improvement. We also 
make training resources available to help employees evolve their 
“Ways We Work” skills.Our leaders play an essential role in bringing out the best in their 
teams. We provide a suite of live and virtual training resources 
focused on leadership development. Leadership Essentials is 
a series of workshops that help AbbVie leaders build the skills 
and behaviors to drive performance and includes: Leadership 
Expectations, which focuses on equipping new people leaders 
by defining our leadership practices and expectations; Leading 
Performance which focuses on how leaders raise the bar on their 
own performance and that of their team; and Leading Teams which 
helps leaders develop their strategy for inclusive leadership and 
keeping teams motivated. 
Through our AbbVie Executive Development program, we 
provide focused development for managers and directors who are 
designated as “key talent” based on performance and leadership 
potential. In 2020, 336 managers and directors participated in 
the program, which we redesigned in response to COVID-19 to 
be delivered virtually. Additionally, we regularly review, update, 
and develop talent according to succession plans which are designed to ensure that we are prepared for the future and have a 
sustainable and agile talent pipeline. Succession planning supports 
business continuity and helps ensure we can continue delivering 
medicines to our patients.  
Performance management and recognition
All categories of employees use our Raise the Bar performance 
management process  to establish expectations, set goals 
and evaluate annual performance based on accomplishing 
established goals and demonstrating the Ways We Work —
behaviors expected of all employees regardless of level, role and 
geographic location. During the year, employees receive feedback 
during “Time to Talk” points throughout the year. These two-way 
dialogue check-ins are designed to support performance, motivate 
development, and build trust. Leaders consider a range of inputs to 
fairly assess each employee based on achievements and behaviors 
for a formal year end assessment. The resulting rating guides merit 
pay increases, and for those eligible, annual bonus payouts and 
long-term incentive stock grants.
Protecting human rights and workplace safety
We believe in the inherent dignity of every human being. We 
uphold and respect individual rights as set out in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights , focusing on preventing, 
mitigating and remedying any adverse human rights impacts 
across our value chain. Our Commitment to Human Rights  
and Code of Business Conduct  describe the ways in which 
we ensure respect for all people, including our employees, 
contractors, suppliers and patients. We absolutely prohibit child 
labor, forced labor, involuntary labor, human trafficking and 
unfair wages and benefits from our own operations and within 
our supply chain. We do not tolerate harassment, discrimination 
or intimidation of any kind and are committed to maintaining a 
work environment free from intimidation, violence or threats of 
violence. Additionally, our Global Privacy Policy protects our 
employees’, patients’ and customers’ personal information. 
We comply with each country’s labor laws and respect our 
employees’ rights to collective bargaining and freedom of 
association . In countries with collective bargaining agreements, 
we have regular conversations with representatives to maintain an open dialogue – 23% of our employees are represented by 
an independent trade union or covered by collective bargaining 
agreements. In Europe, our AbbVie European Employee Forum 
represents more than 10,000 employees and provides a forum to 
share information and build constructive dialog with employee 
representatives from European countries. 
Ensuring the safety of our employees across our workplaces 
is one of our cornerstone commitments to human rights. 
We provide comprehensive workplace safety training for all 
employees, as appropriate for their environment. Our guiding 
philosophy is called “Zero. Believe It. Achieve It.”  which reflects 
the core belief that every environmental, health and safety 
incident is preventable if each employee adopts a preventative 
mindset. We also obtain external certifications for workplace 
safety. All of our manufacturing sites are certified to the 
international standards for safety associated with OHSAS-18001 
or ISO 45001 . All OHSAS-18001 certified sites will move to ISO 
45001 by end of 2021.34 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 35
Enhancing employee well-being
At AbbVie, we are driven by the holistic well-being of our employees 
world-wide. That’s why we promote AbbVie Vitality , a sustained 
set of healthy behaviors: physical, mental, emotional, 
financial, workplace and work-life  to help employees be their 
best selves—at work and at home. Vitality resources cover areas 
including preventive health, fitness, nutrition, mental health, 
financial support and work-life well-being. The program offers a 
wide range of local and global events, programs, resources  
and tools:
• Seminars and online resources on topics such as stress 
management, nutrition, safety and work-life well-being 
• Health promotion programs, including for diabetes, cancer and 
weight management
• On-site health screenings and immunizations in several 
countries, including COVID-19 testing in 2020
• Mental health awareness campaigns 
• Listening sessions to understand points of view and 
experiences with regard to racial equity
• Financial and well-being support, including retirement 
programs and online and in-person learning and seminars
• Fitness and resilience resources including on-site fitness and 
rehabilitation centers
We encourage our employees to ask for help, whether in their 
personal or professional lives and support our employees 
around the world through our  AbbVie Employee Assistance 
Program , which provides assistance with personal concerns, 
free short-term counseling and referral services, and the AbbVie 
Foundation's Employee Assistance Fund (AEAF) . The AEAF 
funds programs that offer employees assistance at two pivotal 
moments—when a child goes to college and if a disaster or 
personal hardship strikes. In 2020, 319 scholarships were awarded 
to children of AbbVie employees from 38 countries as part of the AbbVie Possibilities Scholarship Program, and $3.2 million was 
provided in financial assistance to employees from 21 countries as 
part of the Employee Relief Program.
Work-life well-being
We support work-life well-being and flexibility to help our 
employees sustain high performance, productivity and 
engagement. We provide managers and their teams with 
tools, tips and guidelines on effectively managing workloads, 
managing teams from a distance and supporting flexible work 
practices. Flexible work schemes include flex time, part-time, job 
sharing, shift changes, compressed work weeks, remote work, 
telecommuting and in the U.S., a phased retirement program. In 
2020, flexible work arrangements were offered in 79 countries.
We have industry-leading parental leave policies and on-
site daycare  in several locations to support working parents. 
In the U.S., parental leave policy provides eight weeks paid and 
up to 10 weeks unpaid leave that may be used incrementally to 
phase back into work after having a child. In 2020, 35 percent of 
employees who took parental leave used the phase back option. 
The Family Care Navigator program helps U.S. employees 
navigate their health benefits with a special focus on accessing 
pediatric care, including a primary contact to manage cases and 
provide patient advocacy. 
During 2020, AbbVie provided numerous resources to 
employees to support their ability to work effectively during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, while managing their own well-being and 
caring for their families. These resources continue to remain 
in place and cover caring for physical, emotional and financial 
health, collaborating with coworkers virtually, supporting 
managers to effectively lead and collaborate with their teams, 
virtual development opportunities and caregiver support 
services for working parents.Benefits
AbbVie is committed to providing a comprehensive 
total rewards package that is relevant and 
competitive in attracting, retaining and engaging 
the talent we need to drive our business growth. 
We offer employees a combination of robust and 
meaningful benefits, compensation and well-being 
programs—including health care and retirement 
benefits, life and disability insurance, sick pay, 
medical leave and well-being programs, to name 
a few. Our well-rounded compensation programs 
include short-and long-term incentives designed to 
ensure we are competitive with our peers.Key Performance Indicators: Workplace safety, lost-time injuries frequency rate
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Recordable incident rate (per 200,000 hours worked)* 0.30 0.28 0.27 0.25 0.14
Lost time injuries frequency rate (per million hours worked) * 0.50 0.30 0.24 0.43 0.20
* Data reported in 2016-2018 has been restated due to changes in classification of injury/illness cases post year.
  Periodically, cases will change Recordability or Lost Time status based on medical case management.In 2020, we continued to lead the industry in employee health 
and safety. Since our launch as an independent company, we 
have been a Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) leader 
in occupational health and safety across the biotechnology 
industry, reflecting our commitment to continuously improving our 
best-in-class safety programs. We demonstrated our commitment 
to workplace safety through initiatives such as the STOP Program for Frontline Supervision , a safety training observation program 
designed to reduce workplace injuries and illnesses through 
training, peer-to-peer support and coaching. This program aligns 
with our culture of risk anticipation and is intended to improve 
our detection and elimination of environmental, health and safety 
incidents. To date, more than 650 supervisors have received 
training globally.
Celebrating our working 
parents of the year 
Our talented employees include many 
hardworking mothers and fathers, and each 
year we recognize the parents of our workforce 
who demonstrate great mentorship, overcome 
hardships, make significant contributions to 
social causes and act as a positive role model. 
Candidates are nominated by co-workers or 
managers for the Working Parent of the Year 
recognition. By recognizing talented and hard-
working parents within our workforce, we want to 
encourage a strong culture of work-life balance.
In 2020, we named Eric Lynch as our Working 
Dad and Brenda Gerald as our Working Mother 
of the Year. Both Eric and Brenda inspire their 
colleagues through their work ethic, dedication 
to their families, and perseverance when times 
get rough. Eric, a director in Care Model Strategy for patient 
services, is a single father of three. In 2010, Eric 
devastatingly lost his wife and the mother of his 
children to cancer. Through this recognition, 
we celebrate the the extraordinary job Eric has 
done in both his career and home life.
Brenda, a field access specialist in patient 
services, has her hands full as a single mother 
of four children and four dogs. In the past 
four years, Brenda has suffered through two 
devastating hurricanes which forced her to live 
out of hotels for months at a time with her family. 
However, Brenda’s perseverance led her family 
out of this devastation stronger than before. 36 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 37
We think long-term. We invest in innovative ways to sustainably and measurably 
improve the collective health of people and our planet. We are proud to uphold 
our commitment to serving the community.For the Strength of Our Communities 
2020 Highlights
24%
reduction in carbon 
emissions since  
2015  baseline
89%
of waste diverted  
from landfill18%
reduction in water 
consumption since  
2015 baselineServing the Community   
We are proud to serve and support 
the community and do our part to 
protect the environment. We make a 
remarkable impact that is felt within 
health care and beyond.Contributing to the SDGs Aligning with our PrinciplesSupporting long-term community strength
Giving back is an integral part of who we are. As a 
biopharmaceutical company, our opportunity to make positive 
contributions to society starts with the innovative medicines we 
discover, develop and deliver. Making them accessible to people 
who need them is a critical part of our contribution. However, for 
people without reliable access to health and wellness services, 
that’s not enough. That’s why we support community-based and 
education programs that enhance access to health care more 
broadly and build long-term community strength.
AbbVie and the AbbVie Foundation ’s philanthropic giving 
focuses on three main areas: building strong communities, 
strengthening health care systems and effective 
educational programs . In addition to these three areas, 
through our medicine donation programs, we provide medicines 
for people who would have no other means of accessing them. 
We have seven ongoing medicine donation partnerships with 
non-governmental organizations providing care in low- and 
middle-income countries (LMICs). We support requests for 
medical donations for pediatric health, mental health, and HIV/
AIDS, and access to surgical care by donating our general 
anesthesia treatment for use in free surgeries. Furthermore, 
we donate medicines for use in disaster relief efforts and in 
response to humanitarian crises. Since 2013, we have donated 
medicines for use in over 100 countries.
Strategic philanthropic partnerships
In 2020, we continued to advance a multi-year investment, 
announced in 2018, that provided $350 million to nine  
partner organizations  across the United States and Puerto 
Rico. Within this donation, $155 million was invested in partners 
strengthening health systems and enhancing access to health 
care for underserved communities, $95 million was provided  
to partners to achieve education equity by changing the 
trajectory of the lives of marginalized students, and $100 million 
for disaster relief in Puerto Rico following Hurricanes Irma and 
Maria. Year over year, we continue to see significant results  
from these partnerships. Strengthening health care systems
• Through our partnership with Ronald McDonald House 
Charities (RMHC) , our donation has helped RMHC add more 
than 670 new guest sleeping rooms at 33 Ronald McDonald 
Houses so far, providing more than 246,000 additional nights 
when families could be close to hospital care. During the 
COVID-19 pandemic, with AbbVie’s support these 33 Ronald 
McDonald Houses provided respite for front-line health 
care professionals, created alternative means for expectant 
mothers to receive care and issued immunizations to children 
outside of the hospital.
• Our donation has enabled Family Reach  to expand its 
financial support services for families facing cancer to 
25 new hospitals in 23 states, serving an additional 4,223 
families in immediate need. 860 families were provided with 
financial planners, a free resource for cancer patients and 
caregivers, all of whom reported that they would recommend 
the program. Additionally, 325 social workers and resource 
navigators were trained and added to the Family Reach 
Network to help ensure long-term sustainability for  
the organization.
$1. 3M
donated to disaster relief 
organizations in addition to 
our donations for COVID- 19 
relief efforts$21.7 M
raised during employee 
giving campaign and AbbVie 
Foundation matching38 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 39
Effective Educational Programs
• Communities in Schools (CIS) aims to provide equitable 
opportunities to low-income students to excel in the 
classroom through a community of support based within 
schools. With our support, during the academic year 2019 – 
2020, CIS served 77,719 students in 115 schools, including 
more than 5,000 with intensive case management needs.  
For the current school year 2020 – 2021, CIS is already 
serving 67,294 students, including more than 4,500 with 
intensive case management.
• City Year  aims to increase math and literacy support in  
low-income schools and among at-risk students. In 2020,  
our support enabled City Year to expand into 24 new schools 
in seven new cities and supported a total of 22,015 students 
across 282 schools. In addition, 17 new sites began to use  
the AbbVie-funded new National Math and Literacy  
Academic curriculum. 
• During 2020, the University of Chicago Education Lab 
and Superintendent of Chicago Public Schools received a 
landmark $1.1 million investment from the City of Chicago 
to expand their mentorship program for youth involved 
in gun and other traumatic violence, at risk or involved in 
gang activity or on probation. This was a direct result of an 
AbbVie-funded impact study and allows the program to offer 
year-round services for more than 2,000 students over the 
next three years. Results of a second AbbVie-funded study 
demonstrated successful and cost-effective ways to reduce 
the achievement gaps between minority, low-income  
children and their peers. Building Strong Communities
Following the devastation caused by Hurricanes Maria and 
Irma in 2018, we donated to organizations in Puerto Rico 
invested in long-term solutions to build community resilience by 
strengthening access to health care and housing on the island. 
As a result of our efforts in 2020:
• Habitat for Humanity International  completed 99 
substantial home repairs, trained 22 local workers in OSHA 
certified building practices and created an island-wide 
initiative to provide 500 families with title clearance to 
establish a clear title for property ownership and allow owners 
to seek FEMA recovery or relief for property damage.
• Direct Relief repaired and strengthened 16 additional 
community health centers and provided 39 mobile medical 
units to help clinics reach the most remote and vulnerable 
populations. The initiative also helps integrate innovative 
tele-health care technology into future public health offerings. 
Direct Relief also installed new solar power to provide energy 
for 12 health facilities and 18 community water pumps.  
To enhance preparedness for future disasters, nearly  
800 emergency packs were supplied by Direct Relief to the 
Medical Reserve Corps and other health care providers. With 
the investment in community resilience resources created by 
Direct Relief with AbbVie's support, communities were better 
equipped and less impacted by power, medical stock and 
water loss when earthquakes hit Puerto Rico in 2020.Spotlight: International Medical Corps 
Our approach to promoting health and  
education equity 
Supporting our local community in North Chicago In March 2020—within days of the COVID-19 pandemic 
declaration—AbbVie donated $35 million to help support 
underserved communities and health care systems working 
to address the impact of COVID-19. $20 million of the donation 
supported International Medical Corps, a global first responder 
delivering emergency health care in 30 countries.
AbbVie’s donation enabled International Medical Corps to 
deploy emergency medical field units to support 28 hospitals with 27 field units across the United States, provide 759,000 
items of personal protective equipment and 10,321 pieces of 
medical equipment including oxygen concentrators, ultrasounds, 
defibrillators and more, and cover 74 medical staff shifts 
providing over 8,100 hours of service. 
Learn more about our COVID-19 response in A Year Unlike 
Any Other .
Our approach to grant-making includes open conversations 
with our partners and listening to our community. In our 
conversations with community and nonprofit leaders, we 
consistently heard that reducing health disparities and 
providing educational and workforce-related opportunities 
for underserved Black communities were areas where the 
AbbVie Foundation could have a meaningful impact. As a result, 
the AbbVie Foundation has made a $50 million investment to 
support health and education opportunity in underserved Black 
communities across the U.S.
With our headquarters in the Chicago area, we took time to 
evaluate non-profits that have strong roots in our community 
locally, as well as those with national scope. We identified and 
vetted more than 40 non-profits, both new and well-established 
AbbVie Foundation partners, and selected six to partner with 
as part of this initiative. Each of these philanthropic partners anticipate measurable improvements in health, education and 
workforce disparities rooted in racism. They are looking at 
new ways to improve tomorrow’s systems while empowering 
communities today.
Our five-year commitment entails a two-pronged approach 
– scaling existing programs and launching new programs to 
address inequity. First, we looked to scale existing programs 
with non-profits that have evidenced-based, tested programs 
by bringing them to new locations and through mentorship and 
skills-based volunteering by our employees. We also launched 
new programs with Direct Relief’s Fund for Health Equity and 
United Negro College Fund’s Healthcare Diversity Workforce 
program. Our hope is that our long-term commitment will serve 
as a catalyst for others to join in this important work.
Learn more about our Racial Equity investment in  
A Year Unlike Any Other .
Since the company’s inception in 2013, AbbVie and the AbbVie 
Foundation have contributed significant funding directly to the 
North Chicago community surrounding our global headquarters 
through more than 30 local non-profits. This includes support 
toward education though contributions to classroom, library 
and athletic facility renovations, math and reading curricula 
development and adoption, teacher trainings, a school-based 
health center and building the district’s first preschool.
In 2020, designs for rebuilding the Neal Math & Science 
Academy, North Chicago’s only middle school, using a $40 
million donation from AbbVie were completed and construction 
began. The new building will be operational in Fall 2022 and will 
provide a safer, modernized learning environment to support 
student success. 
Despite the challenges and restrictions to in-person education 
and mentoring due to the COVID-19 pandemic this year, our 
partnership with the Illinois Science and Technology Institute 
(ISTI) enabled students from the local high school to explore potential careers in science through the AbbVie STEM 
Challenge. 125 students were paired with 59 AbbVie employees 
acting as mentors. Students presented their solutions to a “real 
world” challenge in a virtual poster session with the consistent 
and steady support of their mentors. As a result of the program, 
most students reported gaining confidence in collaboration, 
research skills, problem solving, implementing feedback, STEM 
skills and decision making.
During 2020, with our support, North Chicago Community 
Partners quickly pivoted to providing ongoing essential care 
resources for 100+ families each week, created a Volunteer 
from Home Program that assembled more than 57,000 bilingual 
activities to supplement learning, provided full-time in-school 
support for vulnerable students, held pop-up health clinics 
for children and teens and helped launch hybrid learning in 
North Chicago's public K-5 schools. In 2020, our commitment 
to the North Chicago community also included support for 
the Northern Illinois Food Bank, as part of our response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, described in A Year Unlike Any Other .40 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 41
Partnerships
The AbbVie Foundation works with extraordinary global  
partners  to help change lives. This year, our support has 
enabled partners to continue with their important work and 
respond to new challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Baylor College of Medicine International Pediatric AIDS 
Initiative (BIPAI) 
AbbVie Foundation supports BIPAI in providing comprehensive 
and holistic HIV care, treatment, prevention and psychosocial 
support in Romania and Malawi for 30,000 children and 
adults living with HIV/AIDS annually. Over the course of the 
partnership, our  support has enabled the training of more than 
5,000 health care workers, leading to increased adherence 
rates and reduced morbidity and mortality. Because of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, adherence rates decreased, but BIPAI has 
worked to adapt their care and treatment services to the new 
circumstances, and as a result adherence rates are projected  
to return to usual in 2021.
AMPATH (Academic Model Providing Access to  
Health Care)
AMPATH seeks to make health care available for all Kenyans 
through universal health coverage and an integrated approach 
to care that serves hard-to-reach populations and addresses 
multiple health challenges. This year, some funding was 
reallocated to purchase personal protective equipment and to 
ensure access to basic needs including food when the supply 
chain was impacted, allowing the program to continue engaging 
health workers and communities. Partners In Health (PIH)
PIH’s innovative community health programs strengthen the 
capacity of community health workers in parts of Mexico.  
In 2020, AbbVie Foundation’s support enabled PIH to serve 
1,100 patients with chronic diseases, during more than 4,700 
consultations, provide mentorship, supervision and more than 
100 training sessions to 80 local community health care workers 
(CHW) and coaching to health care providers on helping people 
with diabetes prevent disease progression. CHWs were also 
trained and redeployed to support PIH’s COVID-19 response, 
with contact tracing becoming one of the CHWs  
primary responsibilities. 
Additionally, a household screening visit program is being 
piloted, where a community health worker regularly visits a 
home to provide preventative care. So far, the program has led 
to improvement in rates of control for diabetes and hypertension.
MAP International
Complementing our pro bono research program on neglected 
tropical diseases, AbbVie Foundation supports MAP 
International in their efforts to prevent and manage Chagas 
disease in Bolivia. Their community-based approach includes 
health education, training community health workers, diagnosis 
and treatment support and practical action to minimize 
transmission such as repairing and constructing latrines. In 
2020, more than 5,500 people were screened during home visits 
and referred for care. These efforts help to increase awareness 
and co-operation between stakeholders including health care 
services, the educational system, child protection agencies and 
grassroots and ethnic organizations.Employee giving and volunteering
Community engagement  is an integral part of AbbVie’s culture 
and our employees are committed to giving back. In recognition 
of our giving culture, Great Place to Work® and PEOPLE again 
named AbbVie as one of PEOPLE’s 50 Companies That Care  
in 2020. 
Our employee giving and matching program encourages 
employees to make charitable donations to eligible nonprofit 
organizations. Through an online platform supported by  
AbbVie, employees, retirees and former and current members 
of the board of directors may make contributions to charities 
of their choice. The AbbVie Foundation matches those 
contributions dollar for dollar, up to $5,000 per employee per 
year. This year, we expanded the program from North America 
to be available globally, and committed to matching employee 
donations 2:1 to COVID-19 related charities and 3:1 to civil 
rights non-profits  fostering racial equity. Each year we run an 
Employee Giving Campaign and consistently exceed 85 percent 
U.S.-based employee participation in the campaign. In 2020, AbbVie employees in 50 countries raised $21.7 million 
through our matched giving program to benefit more than  
8,100 charities which was a 69% increase over the prior year. 
All employees can use up to two days of paid work time to 
volunteer in the community. We run several pro bono programs 
so that our specialized employees can donate their skills in 
the most useful way. These include a research program where 
AbbVie R&D experts donate paid work time to collaborations 
with global health partners to address unmet needs and public 
health issues, particularly those affecting people in low- and 
middle-income countries. 
Through our legal pro bono program, AbbVie attorneys and 
legal staff have teamed up with the National Immigrant 
Justice Center (NIJC) , a nonprofit that provides legal services 
to immigrants and asylum seekers, donating their time and skills 
to represent people seeking asylum in the United States on 
grounds of political and gender persecution. We are proud to be 
part of protecting human rights in this way.
Key Performance Indicators: Economic activity, volunteerism and philanthropy
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Employee community volunteers (worldwide) 8,174 7,247 7,494 10,059 7721
Students reached through education projects 9,107 56,840 56,807 57,033 236,9062
Funds raised during employee giving campaign (millions) $6.5 $7.90 $11.80 $13.0 $21.73
Number of disaster relief efforts supported4 7 9 10 6 6
Total amount donated to disaster relief organizations (excluding 
product donations, millions)$0.4 $4.5 $2.6 $1.5 $1.3
1. In 2020, all AbbVie-organized, in-person volunteering programs were paused due to 
COVID-19. That included our annual, global volunteering event Week of Possibilities. As a 
result, our 2020 volunteering numbers are not in line with our usual volunteering efforts and 
relate to skill-based volunteering by a small number of specialized employees. 
2. Our corporate $350 million philanthropic commitment that begun in 2018 contained a 
significant education component. The increase in students reached in 2020 reflect the 
results of these programs. 
3. 2020 was a unique year for AbbVie’s Giving and Matching program. In 2020, the Employee 
Giving Campaign more than doubled its footprint from an AbbVie U.S. program with 15,000 
employees to an international program serving nearly 37,000 employees all over the world. 
We also provided a temporary 2:1 matching for non-profits dealing with the impact of 
COVID-19 and for those fostering civil rights and racial equity. In December 2020, the 2:1 civil 
rights and racial equity program expanded to 3:1 as part of the company’s $50 million 5-year 
commitment to racial equity.4. AbbVie and AbbVie Foundation’s response to disasters varies any given year based on 
a range of variables. In 2017 and 2018, large-scale disasters occurred in regions such as 
Puerto Rico where a significant number of AbbVie employees live and work. Fewer large-
scale disasters occurred in 2019 and 2020, however AbbVie made a $35 million philanthropic 
response to organizations engaged in disaster relief efforts related to COVID-19. 42 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 43
Prioritizing environmental sustainability
We prioritize environmental sustainability within and beyond 
AbbVie to support our patients, people and planet. Our 
environmental sustainability strategy is focused on reducing 
our environmental footprint, growing sustainability through 
inspiring innovation and engaging our workforce to steward 
sustainability. We have set ambitious, long-term environmental 
sustainability targets for absolute reductions to carbon 
emissions, water use and waste generation, striving for zero 
waste to landfill at our sites while driving increases in renewable 
electricity. We disclose our efforts and impacts through 
participation in various reports, including CDP . Climate change impacts human health. In 2021, we committed to 
joining the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)  by setting 
ambitious science-based emissions reduction targets to support 
limiting global temperature rise to no more than 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels, in line with the Paris Climate Agreement and 
the 2018 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Working 
with the SBTi allows us to access expert resources to support 
us on our journey to meaningfully reduce our climate impact and 
provides external assessment and validation of our approach 
and target. We intend to formally announce our SBTi-approved 
science-based targets in 2022, using 2021 as our baseline year.   
AbbVie environmental targets (all changes are relative to 2015 baseline)
 2020 Achieved 2025 Target 2035 Target
Reduce absolute carbon emissions (scope 1 & scope 2 – market based) 24% 25% 50%
Increase percentage of electricity purchased from renewable sources 
(excluding leased commercial offices)28% 50% 100%
Reduce absolute water withdrawal (including non-contact cooling water) -3% 20% 50%
Reduce absolute total hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated 
(excluding construction and demolition waste)13% 20% ----
Achieve and maintain combined recycling rate for hazardous & non-
hazardous waste (excluding construction and demolition waste)38% 50% ----
Achieve zero waste to landfill (excluding leased offices) 89% ---- 100%
+ Includes waste disposed of in the following manner: beneficial use, recycled, composted, treated, fuel blending, incinerated with energy recovery and incinerated without energy recovery.
Reducing our footprint
We work to advance the sustainability of our global operations 
by reducing the energy and water we consume and the waste 
we generate. We also monitor our operations to ensure that the 
manufacture, use and disposal of our medicines do not adversely 
affect the environment or human health. We operate robust 
environmental and energy management systems that maintain 
the integrity of our environmental sustainability strategy. All our 
manufacturing sites have ISO 14001 certification for effective 
environmental management systems, ten have ISO 50001 
certification for effective energy management systems and we 
are working toward two additional ISO 50001 certifications. Three 
of our sites are Energy Star Certified.
We also expect our suppliers to join us in our efforts to protect 
the environment. As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct , 
we expect suppliers to operate in an environmentally responsible 
manner and strive to minimize adverse impacts on the 
environment. Our supplier sustainability audits include a thorough 
assessment of the environmental stewardship practices of key 
suppliers. Through our sustainable procurement policy , we prioritize the selection of suppliers and purchased goods that 
have lower impact on the environment when compared with 
competing products. View our commitment to environmental 
stewardship  and our position on global climate change  for 
additional information.
Energy and carbon emissions
Our determined efforts to reduce carbon emissions are being 
achieved largely through investment in technology, infrastructure 
and processes that increase energy efficiency and use cleaner 
energy sources . For example, our new co-generation system 
at our manufacturing site in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico enables 
AbbVie’s plant to generate its own electricity and operates 
completely on liquefied natural gas, replacing our use of #6 
fuel oil, which has higher emissions. In 2020, we increased the 
amount of renewable electricity that we purchase to power 
North American sites and are on track to meet our 2025 target of 
increasing renewable energy sourcing by 50% compared with the 
2015 baseline. We also continue to expand the use of electric and 
hybrid vehicles in our fleets, as well as explore other opportunities 
to reduce emissions.Climate change adaptation
We continually evaluate the impact of climate change on our 
business, particularly in terms of potential supply disruption. To 
protect continuous access to medicines and mitigate supply 
risks, we conduct climate risk assessments and implement 
adaption projects. Climate risk is integrated into our enterprise 
risk management process. In 2020, we partnered with S&P 
Global Trucost  to perform a Climate Risk Assessment for 
Physical Risks . The analysis focuses on extreme weather 
impacts today and other climate impacts in 2020 to 2050 . The 
risk assessment encompassed 100 global sites and locations 
including all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse locations, along 
with selected commercial affiliate offices. It also included the top 
35 locations of our critical suppliers, the top 20 locations for our 
third-party logistic warehouses and all 9 of our global third-party 
data centers. We are in the process of analyzing the results of 
this assessment and will publicly disclose the results as part of 
our 2021 CDP Climate submission . 
We use qualitative and quantitative climate-related scenario 
analysis for physical risks. The Trucost dataset focuses on three 
future climate change scenarios based on IPCC Representative 
Concentration Pathways (RCP) and informed by the TCFD 
technical guidelines (FSB, 2017): High Climate Change Scenario 
(RCP 8.5), Moderate Climate Change Scenario (RCP 4.5), and Low 
Climate Change Scenario (RCP 2.6). AbbVie analyzes climate risks 
against the RCP 2.6, RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 scenarios. AbbVie 
conducts general level assessments on the physical impact of 
climate change and includes our upstream operations in addition 
to our downstream operations and clients. This includes analysis 
of water risk across our manufacturing and research sites. We 
use the WRI Aqueduct tool to assess direct and indirect water-
related risks through 2030.
Some of the actions we’ve already taken to adapt to climate risk 
include updating physical features at our Barceloneta, Puerto 
Rico site in preparation for stronger hurricanes. Our roofs 
have been designed and reinforced to withstand a category 5 
hurricane, and our co-generation system has been replaced to 
ensure that we can self-generate power if one of the engines is 
damaged. In preparations for power interruptions from wildfires in 
California, we installed and commissioned an on-site emergency 
generator at our new R&D site in South San Francisco.
Water
Access to clean water is crucial for health, and we are 
committed to using water responsibly and doing our part to 
protect this vital resource. We have set an ambitious goal 
to halve our absolute water withdrawal by 2035 when 
compared with our 2015 baseline. To achieve this goal, we focus 
our efforts on reducing our total global water consumption and 
invest in innovative technologies that allow us to use water 
more efficiently. For example, at our manufacturing site in Sligo, 
Ireland, our investment in a new on-site water treatment system 
has enabled us to reduce hazardous aqueous waste by 5,000 
metric tons per year.Waste
As a pharmaceutical company, we produce hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste at our manufacturing and research sites. 
We recognize the importance of minimizing these and using 
appropriate waste disposal methods, avoiding landfill wherever 
possible. We continuously evaluate opportunities to reduce, 
reuse and recycle  waste materials. In 2016, we set a goal to 
send zero waste to landfill by 2035. 
To ensure proper management, we characterize our waste 
streams to determine waste classification and proper disposal 
methods and ensure our employees are fully aware of correct 
classification and procedures. Waste management training is 
provided to AbbVie employees and contract workers before they 
undertake any responsibility for hazardous waste management 
activities. We routinely audit the procedures and practices of 
third-party waste management providers to ensure our waste is 
responsibly managed and disposed of. 44 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 45
Spark Innovation 
Accelerator: 2020 
Celebration of Impact 
Our inaugural year of Spark Innovation Accelerator 
in 2019 received over 100 ideas. We selected eight 
winning teams from five global sites to accelerate 
their ideas into action in 2020, and our pilot results 
indicate the projects will have an estimated collective 
positive impact of reducing 95,700 cubic meters of 
water (38 Olympic swimming pools) and 613 metric 
tons of wate (307 garbage trucks) by 2025.
Two of our winning Spark teams came from 
Singapore, and their projects have had an impressive 
impact already: 
Make every drop count
Singapore is a high-water stress location with an 
extremely dense population, yet not enough open 
land to collect water. AbbVie’s Make Every Drop 
Count team came up with a rainwater harvesting 
program to reduce the amount of fresh water used 
for cooling at one of our manufacturing sites. The 
project is estimated to reduce fresh water use by 
20,000 cubic meters, the equivalent of 14.5 Olympic 
swimming pools, and save $36,000 USD annually  
by 2025. 
Single-use plastic recycling
Much of the plastic used in the manufacturing 
process at our biologics plant in Singapore was used 
only once before being discarded due to sanitation 
requirements. To address this, the team looked for 
ways to redirect the plastic from the waste stream. 
After thoughtfully searching for the right vendor, the 
team reached an agreement with Environmental 
Solutions, which converts the plastic into pyrolysis oil, 
a petroleum-substitute biofuel. Thanks to the team’s 
hard work, an estimated 400 metric tons of plastic will 
be diverted from landfill each year by 2025. AbbVie is 
the first biotech company in Singapore to pioneer this 
recycling solution. Key Performance Indicators: Environmental sustainability
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Change in absolute carbon emissions vs. 2015 baseline*  
(scope 1 and scope 2, market based) [2025 target: -25%]-8% -13% -13% -16% -24%
Change in absolute water withdrawal vs. 2015 baseline*  
(includes non-contact cooling water)++ [2025 target: -20%]+4% +1% +4% -6% +3% 
Change in absolute water consumption** vs. 2015  
(excludes non-contact cooling water)++-5% -12% -11% -12% -18% 
Combined recycling rate for hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
(excluding construction & demolition) [2025 target: 50%]37% 37% 32% 35% 38%
Percentage of global waste diverted from landfills  
(annually) ,**,+ (excluding construction & demolition)77% 83% 85% 88% 89%
Percentage of electricity purchased from renewable sources 
(excluding leased facilities) [2025 target: 50%]9% 16% 20% 25% 28%
Figures exclude two R&D facilities which were not included in the 2015 baseline.
** This key performance metric includes manufacturing and R&D, which account for most of our operations.
+ Includes waste disposed of in the following manners: beneficial use, recycled, composted, treated, fuel blending, incinerated with energy recovery and incinerated without energy recovery.
++ Non-contact cooling water is returned to the source in the same amount and with the same quality as was withdrawn. The increase we’ve seen in our non-contact cooling water use is generally  
     due to seasonal variations in source water temperaturesGrowing sustainably
Integrating sustainability into our design, planning 
and development allows us to embed environmental 
sustainability into our business activities, supporting 
our environmental targets and sustainable business 
growth. In 2020, we refreshed our Global Facility 
Design Guidelines  to include more than 100 ways to 
incorporate sustainability into our office and laboratory 
renovations, new builds and leased facilities globally.
Our Sustainable Packaging Program has been 
developed with circular economy principles  in mind, 
focusing on designing packaging in a way that will 
enable its recovery through reuse or recycling. The 
program also looks at optimizing packaging solutions 
during transportation to reduce carbon emissions 
and working with suppliers to source innovative 
materials that reduce the environmental impact of our 
packaging solutions. 
Inspiring innovation
The SPARK Innovation Accelerator is an incubator for 
employee driven AbbVie sustainability ideas focused 
on accelerating our efforts to reduce energy, water and 
waste. In 2020, colleagues from 37 different global sites 
submitted over 200 ideas and 13 winning ideas will be 
implemented by November 2021. 
On Earth Day 2020, we launched EcoChallenge , a 
virtual employee sustainability engagement event to 
encourage our global community of changemakers 
to take action to make a healthier and better world 
possible. In 2020, over the course of 3.5 weeks, 2,200 
colleagues from 36 different countries participated and 
completed over 48,100 sustainable actions to reduce 
energy, water and waste.46 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 47
We believe that good citizenship is good business. We lead with ethical decision 
making and a commitment to sustainable solutions that ensure business 
resiliency and long-term success. For the Resilience of Our Business
2020 Highlights
+$544 M
spend with small and 
diverse suppliers99%
of employees certified 
in our Code of Business 
Conduct trainingActing with Integrity   
We strive to always do the right thing. With uncompromising integrity at the heart 
of everything we do, we pursue the highest standards in quality, compliance, safety 
and performance.Contributing to the SDGs Aligning with our Principles
Delivering sustainable growth
Corporate governanceWe believe that good citizenship is good business. By leading 
with ethical decision making and a commitment to sustainable 
solutions, we ensure business resiliency and long-term success. 
We operate a sustainable, agile business model and governance 
structure that anticipates and evolves with a dynamic industry 
environment, while consistently assuring a supply of innovative 
medicines. We pride ourselves in our unwavering commitment 
to financial controls and strong corporate governance practices 
which enable us to continuously deliver to our stakeholders.Our focus on product innovation  and patient health and 
engagement  is the key to successful patient outcomes as  
well as the sustainable health of our business. Our strong 
human capital management  practices provide the opportunity 
for innovation to flourish through an inclusive culture and 
meaningful sustainable growth opportunities. Through all these 
we drive meaningful change that creates a remarkable impact 
on people’s lives.
Our board of directors is committed to strong corporate 
governance tailored to meet the needs of AbbVie and its 
shareholders to enhance long-term stockholder value. Eleven of 
our twelve directors are independent, including the chairs and 
all members of the board's Audit Committee, Compensation 
Committee, Public Policy Committee and Nominations and 
Governance Committee. Since our inception, we have had 
a lead independent director with robust and well-defined 
responsibilities to ensure the appropriate level of oversight 
and independence is applied to all board decisions. The lead 
independent director is chosen by and from the independent 
members of the board of directors. Each committee follows a 
charter  that details its purpose, authority and responsibilities. 
In 2020, the board spent a significant amount of time overseeing 
the company’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well 
as overseeing AbbVie’s response to the U.S. racial justice 
movement, in addition to their usual areas of focus such as risk 
management, human capital management, long-term company 
strategy and succession planning. To ensure continued effective oversight, the board and its 
committees annually conduct detailed, anonymous self-
evaluations. The full board, led by the lead independent director, 
discusses the evaluation reports to determine what, if any, 
actions or improvements should be undertaken. 
Board composition and diversity
Diverse perspectives strengthen the oversight of AbbVie’s 
business, and we are committed to having a diversity of 
experiences on our board of directors as well throughout our 
workforce. Director nominees are considered based on a 
range of criteria, including diversity of race, ethnicity, gender, 
age and geography together with other voluntarily identified 
diversity criteria. In the process of identifying nominees to serve 
as a member of the board of directors, the nominations and 
governance committee considers the existing board’s diversity 
and assesses the effectiveness of the recruitment process in 
achieving a diverse board. Currently, 42% of our board are 
women or members of underrepresented ethnic groups . 48 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 49
Ethical conduct
Risk managementTo make a positive long-term impact for patients, we earn and 
maintain their trust by acting with integrity in everything we do. 
We follow all relevant laws and industry codes, and through 
our Code of Business Conduct , Supplier Code of Conduct  
and our  internal anti-harassment and discrimination policy , 
we set clear expectations for appropriate behavior. Our Code 
of Business Conduct applies to all employees globally and is 
available in 31 languages . Each year, all employees are required 
to complete training on the Code and certify that they will 
adhere to it. Our compliance training is continually reviewed and 
updated as necessary. We also provide training to employees 
on anti-harassment and anti-discrimination policies and 
practices, and employees in relevant functions receive additional 
mandatory training on topics such as anti-corruption and anti-
bribery, conflicts of interest and more. We are committed to 
ethical marketing practices, as outlined in our Code of  
Business Conduct.
Creating an environment where employees can raise questions 
and concerns helps us advance our commitment to ethical 
behavior. We have established systems and processes for all 
employees to ask questions and report suspected or actual 
violations of our Code, policies and procedures. We offer  
various reporting resources to employees, such as our Ethics 
and Compliance Helpline, a telephone and Web-based 
hotline which is available 24/7 and can be used anonymously. 
Employees may also contact the Office of Ethics and 
Compliance or Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer directly. All 
allegations are promptly investigated. If we find that violations 
have occurred, we take corrective or disciplinary action as 
appropriate. We do not tolerate retaliation against anyone who 
makes a good faith report.  As part of our commitment to ethical privacy practices and 
compliance with global privacy laws, in 2020 we launched a 
global privacy awareness campaign  with engaging interactive 
content, highlighting important privacy principles for our 
employees. The program reinforced the ways our employees can 
remain compliant with privacy requirements in their day-to-day 
work and emphasizes the importance of being good stewards of 
AbbVie’s data. 
More information on our approach to Ethics & Compliance can 
be found on our website . 
Ethical treatment of animals  
Animal testing is required by law for the development of new 
medicines. We apply the internationally accepted and ethically 
guided “3Rs” principles of animal testing; reduce, replace and 
refine. In our efforts, we seek to reduce the number of animals 
required to achieve research objectives, when possible, replace 
animal studies with non-animal or sentient alternatives; and if 
animals must be studied, we refine our practices to minimize any 
potential for pain and/or distress. Our Commitment to Humane 
Care and Use of Animals outlines our approach. We promote 
the 3Rs principles to our scientists with training and an Impact 
Award Program to recognize innovative approaches. Risk management is one of the key priorities of our board of 
directors, who review enterprise risks and discusses them 
with our senior management on a regular basis. The board 
receives regular reports from our Risk Council , comprising of 
cross functional leaders that are well trained and educated in 
risk management. Each member is responsible for pro-actively 
identifying and mitigating risk in their respective functions and 
providing feedback on these risks to the council.  Specific risks 
are additionally overseen by our Risk Management and Global 
Security teams. Our Executive Crisis Management Team  
anticipates and mitigates internal and external business risks 
by establishing risk management strategies and formal plans 
for each area of our business. Plans are routinely checked and 
adjusted to improve effectiveness and strengthen protections for our patients, employees, and our business. Our Executive Crisis 
Management Team led our company's response to COVID-19. 
Our Global Anti-Counterfeiting Steering Committee  is 
responsible for identifying and mitigating risks related to AbbVie 
medicines. In 2020, the Office of Ethics & Compliance worked 
with an external consulting firm to review AbbVie’s policies, 
systems and controls related to high-risk business  
areas/activities.  
All employees are trained annually on the principles of decision-
making to avoid risk including legal, compliance, reputational 
and operational risks. Additionally, we run regular training 
sessions at a functional level to educate employees and 
reinforce risk awareness. Key Performance Indicators: Ethics & compliance
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Number of employees certifying on the AbbVie Code of  
Business Conduct*28,580 28,906 29,595 29,160 28,816
Number of regulatory inspections of AbbVie commercial 
manufacturing facilities41 52 37 27 24
Rate of expedited adverse event reporting to EMA >98% >98% >98% >98% >98%
Backorders as percentage of total orders <0.01% <0.01% <0.01% <0.01% <0.01%
* This figure fluctuates with the workforce.
Public policy
AbbVie is committed to transparency and is guided by our Code 
of Business Conduct in all of our public policy engagement. We 
pursue activities that shape policies to benefit patients, with a 
focus on improving access to new medical advances. AbbVie 
makes extensive disclosures  regarding our political activities 
and political contributions  as required by law and voluntarily 
discloses additional related information on our website. We have been recognized in the first tier of companies providing 
the highest level of political transparency and accountability in 
the CPA-Zicklin Index  every year from 2014-2020. We are an 
active member of trade associations  and other membership 
organizations, that are aligned with our business objectives, 
including through our employees serving as board members . 50 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 51
Our supply chain
We create business opportunity for thousands of suppliers 
in 129 countries . In 2020, we purchased goods and services 
valued at more than $14 billion from suppliers  around the 
world. This included more than $544 million from approximately 
1,600 small and diverse businesses in North America, 
including Puerto Rico. 
A key objective of our supply chain management strategy is to 
maintain assurance of supply , which requires all suppliers of 
key inputs to be able to deliver quality inputs on time. Our goal 
is to always have product available for patients. Over 99% of the 
time our product is available for our patients. In 2020, backorders 
comprised fewer than <0.01%  of the total orders we fulfilled.
We prioritize the selection of suppliers and purchased goods 
that have lower impact on the environment when compared with 
competing products that serve the same purpose, as outlined in 
our Environmental Procurement Guidelines . We expect our 
suppliers to uphold the same high standards of ethical conduct, 
human rights and health & safety as we do, as stated in our 
Supplier Code of Conduct . Adherence to the code is part of 
new supplier contracts. We participate in the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative to promote responsible practices in 
labor, health, safety and environmental sustainability in supply 
chains, and evaluate all suppliers to ensure they provide safe 
working conditions, treat workers with dignity and respect, 
maintain environmentally responsible manufacturing processes 
and implement sufficient management systems and ethical 
practices. We also conduct quality assessments and audits of our critical 
suppliers to ensure they are upholding our quality standards, 
based on a detailed risk evaluation that considers the potential 
impact on product efficacy, safety, availability or patient 
experience among other factors. We aim to assess each of  
these critical suppliers in-depth at least once every three years. 
We also take strong proactive measures to maintain the security 
of our supply chain. Our approach to supply chain management 
is detailed in more depth here .
Supplier diversity
Our Supplier Diversity program is designed to integrate 
small and diverse businesses into our supply chain. We offer 
opportunities for historically underutilized populations, including 
underrepresented populations, women, military veterans and 
others to do business with AbbVie. Our Environmental, Health 
and Safety (EHS) team, in partnership with our office of Supplier 
Diversity, offers support to small and diverse suppliers with 
pro bono services including EHS audits and sustainability 
training. Other supplier development activities consist of annual 
mentoring on a variety of topics by our experienced teams.
Key Performance Indicators: Supplier spend and diversity
 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Total supplier spend (worldwide) $8.2B $9.7B $13.3B $13.8B $14.8B1
Total spend with small and diverse suppliers (millions) $516 $741 $894 $934 $5442
Number of supplier sites assessed in-depth for quality 488 540 474 491 192*
Percentage of supplier sites with greatest impact on product quality 
and safety assessed in-depth332% 41% 41% 48% 24%*
1. Figures include L -AGN
2. COVID-19 related factors impacted 2020 spend
3. Some sites not assessed during the four-year period are new and still within the required audit window.
* COVID-19-related factors impacted in-depth site assessmentsAbbVie’s mission is to discover and develop innovative  
medicines and products that solve serious health issues and 
enhance people’s lives today, address the medical challenges 
of tomorrow with ground-breaking science and achieve top-
tier financial performance. We will do this through the lens of 
scientific stewardship – by nurturing diverse talent – the source 
of our innovation – and partnering and collaborating with health 
care systems, diverse suppliers and community organizations to 
deliver effective medicines and supportive strategies that advance 
science, improve health outcomes and strengthen our collective 
impact. Our pipeline of promising new medicines and our recent 
acquisition of Allergan provides us with a strong outlook for 2021. 
Over the coming years, we will continue to innovate with integrity 
and intention to advance the long-term health of our patients, 
our people and our planet. We are driven by our commitment to 
science which is a commitment to better our society.Looking Ahead52 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 53
 Safety of Clinical Trial Participants
HC-BP-210a.1 Discussion, by world region, of management process for 
ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials • Conduct of Clinical Trials & Postmarketing 
Commitments
• Registration of protocols & results reporting
HC-BP-210a.2 Number of FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical 
trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in 
(1) Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI) and (2) Official Action 
Indicated (OAI) • U.S. Food & Drug Administration Inspection 
Classification Database
HC-BP-210a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing 
countries Not reported.
 Affordability & Pricing
HC-BP-240b.1 Number of settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application 
(ANDA) litigation that involved payments and/or provisions to 
delay bringing an authorized generic product to market for a 
defined time period If there are material legal proceedings associated 
with ANDA litigation and public disclosure criteria 
are met, details would be included in 2020 Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and in Quarterly Reports  
on Form 10-Q
HC-BP-240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list price and (2) average net 
price across U.S product portfolio compared to previous year Not reported.
HC-BP-240b.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of product 
with largest increase compared to previous year Not reported. Counterfeit Drugs
HC-BP-260a.1 Description of methods and 
technologies used to maintain 
traceability of products 
throughout the supply chain and 
prevent counterfeitingSpecific risks are overseen by our Risk Management and Global Security teams.  
Our Global Anti-Counterfeiting Steering Committee is responsible for identifying and 
mitigating risks related to AbbVie medicines. They coordinate proactive strategies 
for preventing counterfeiting and diversion of our medicines and conduct routine 
monitoring to identify signals of possible counterfeiting or diversion. In 2020, the 
Office of Ethics and Compliance worked with an external consulting firm to review 
AbbVie’s policies, systems and controls related to high-risk business areas/activities.
Risk Management, Our Supply Chain
AbbVie also takes strong proactive measures to maintain the security of our supply 
chain including participation in the Trusted Trader programs run by the U.S., E.U, 
and other customs authorities. For more information, please see Suppliers | AbbVie
HC-BP-260a.2 Discussion of process for 
alerting customers and business 
partners of potential or known 
risks associated with counterfeit 
productsAbbVie has established and maintains systems for global reporting of events and 
deviations, including counterfeit products. Any possible events will be submitted 
accurately and timely per the pertinent regulations. See AbbVie Supplier Code of 
Conduct
HC-BP-260a.3 Number of actions that led to 
raids, seizure, arrests and/or 
filing or criminal charges related 
to counterfeit productsNot reported.
 Drug Safety
HC-BP-250a.1 List of products listed in the Food and Drug Administrations 
(FDA) MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products 
database • U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) Med 
Watch Safety Alerts for Human Medical 
Products
HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products as reported in 
the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System • U.S Food & Drug Administration (FDA)Adverse 
Event Reporting System (FAERS) Public 
Dashboard
HC-BP-250a.3 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled • U.S Food & Drug Administration (FDA)Adverse 
Event Reporting System (FAERS) Public 
Dashboard
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse  
or disposal Not reported.
HC-BP-250a.5 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to 
violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)  
by type Not reported. Access to Medicines
HC-BP-240a.1 Description of actions and initiatives to promote access 
to health care products for priority diseases and in priority 
countries as defined by the Access to Medicine Index • Making Medicine Accessible
• Our Commitment to Access to Medicine 
• AbbVie Contribution to Combatting Neglected 
Tropical Diseases
HC-BP-240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal 
Products as part of its Prequalification of Medicines 
Programme (PQP) • World Health Organization Prequalification of 
Medical Products
 Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention
HC-BP-330a.1Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and 
research and development personnel For the Growth of Our Employees 
HC-BP-330a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives/senior 
managers, (b) midlevel managers, (c) professionals, and (d) all others For the Growth of Our Employees 
 Business Ethics
HC-BP-510a.1Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with corruption and 
briberyIf there are material legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery and 
public disclosure criteria are met, details would be included in 2020 Annual Report 
on Form 10-K and in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics 
governing interactions with 
health care professionals AbbVie is fair and open in our interactions with health care professionals. AbbVie 
does not offer or give gifts or other items or services of value to earn favor for our 
products or to sway medical judgement. AbbVie relies on product quality and 
health care outcomes to influence purchasing and prescribing practices. See 
AbbVie Code of Business Conduct 
 Activity Metrics
HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated Approximately 57 million
HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio 
and (2) in research and 
development (Phases 1-3) AbbVie medicines and devices treat more than 60 conditions across infant, 
adolescent, adult and senior stages of life. 
AbbVie’s pipeline currently includes more than 90 compounds, devices or 
indications in development individually or under collaboration or license 
agreements. Of these programs, more than 50 are in mid- and late-stage 
development. Supply Chain Management
HC-BP-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier 1 suppliers' facilities 
participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Consortium audit program or equivalent third-party audit programs for 
integrity of supply chain and ingredients AbbVie Supplier Code of Conduct Ethical Marketing
HC-BP-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with false marketing 
claimsIf there are material legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims and 
public disclosure criteria are met, details would be included in 2020 Annual Report 
on Form 10-K and in Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q 
HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics 
governing promotion of off-label 
use of products AbbVie only promotes our pharmaceutical products for uses that have been 
approved or authorized by appropriate government or regulatory agencies. AbbVie 
product claims are grounded in scientific evidence, accepted medical practice and 
government-approved labeling rules in all countries where we operate. See AbbVie 
Code of Business ConductSASB Index54 2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report  2020 Environmental, Social & Governance Report 55
Polices, codes, and compliance standards
Our public positions and views align with our work to improve lives—and to 
do so in a transparent and sustainable way. Additional policies, codes and 
compliance standards on a range of areas are also publicly available.
Data assurance and reporting standards
Specified 2020 environmental and safety data have been assured by DNV 
GL. Where noted, minor changes have been made to previously stated data.
The 2020 Assurance Report outlines performance for corporate-wide 
environmental and safety data. All environmental data is presented as 
absolute data; safety data is presented as rates, using hours worked.Stay up to date on recent news, stories 
and more by connecting with us.
stories.abbvie.com
abbvie.com/societal-impact
responsibility@abbvie.com
Email us to subscribe to our quarterly 
responsibility e-newsletter.AbbVie Inc.  
1 North Waukegan Road 
North Chicago, IL 60064 U.S.A.
abbvie.com
©2021 AbbVie. All rights reserved.For more information, visit:  
abbvie.com  
abbvie.com/societalimpact