1 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibility
Doing  
the Right 
things
2009  
CORPORATE   
RESPONSIBILITY   
REPORTwww.pfizer.com/responsibility 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2INTRODUCTION
1Committe D  
to Responsible  
gRowth
We recognize that our responsibilities and potential impact go far beyond 
the medicines we discover and develop. Pfizer is uniquely positioned in both developed and emerging markets to promote health and wellness and respond more effectively to unmet medical needs.
Together with our partners, we are looking for meaningful ways to improve 
health care around the world. Ensuring steady progress in biomedical science  
is a part of that. So is improving our business. 
Pfizer has been undergoing a transformation that is making us more 
entrepreneurial and accountable. Our plans to acquire Wyeth are designed to accelerate this process. We are striving to create the world’s premier biopharmaceutical company: diverse, flexible, and a leader in nearly all dimensions of human and animal medicines and vaccines.www.pfizer.com/responsibility 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2INTRODUCTION
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2
22 
RESEARC h & D EvELOP mENT
44 
ENvIRON mENT , hEALT h AND SA fETY28 
ACCESS TO m EDICINE S
50 
gOvERNANCE
36 
PATIENT SA fETY
56 
mANufACT uRIN g & S uPPLY C hAIN
40 
SALES & mAR kETIN g
60 
COLLEA guES & CO mmu NIT YTABLE O f CONTENTS
1 COmmITTED TO R ESPONSIBLE gRO wTh
3 ABOuT ThE REPOR T
4 ChAIRmAN’S LETTER TO S TAkEhOLDER S
6 PfIzER C OmPANY P ROfILE 
 PfIzER C ORPORATE R ESPONSIBILIT Y
7 STAkEhOLDER  ENgAgEmENT
8 2008/2009 gOAL S
10  PfIzER’S APPROAC h TO Pu BLIC P OLICY E NgAgEmENT
The New Era of Responsibility
The Pf IzeR COmm ITmeNT fOR  
TODay & T OmORRO w113 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityAbout the Repo Rt
We are pleased to provide you with Pfizer’s 
third report on our corporate responsibility 
performance. This report highlights our recent 
activities and updates our last report. Based  on feedback from readers and stakeholders,  
we have chosen to make this report more 
succinct than previous ones and to focus  more exclusively on our progress since our  
last report. More detailed information on  
our activities, including case studies, policies  and guidelines, can be found on our Web site, 
www.pfizer.com/responsibility.SCOPE O f REPORTIN g
This report covers Pfizer’s businesses, and includes activities and 
data from the calendar years 2007 and 2008. Additional updates from 2009 are referenced where relevant. The report does not discuss the proposed acquisition of Wyeth except in forward-looking statements.
Pfizer produces a Corporate Responsibility Report every other 
year, and updates the Web site with new information quarterly. Our last report was published in 2007.
mATERIALITY
The content of this report is based on a materiality analysis focusing on two key factors—the importance to stakeholders and the potential to influence business strategy. Materiality was assessed by our Corporate Responsibility team and by an external advisory group. The analysis identified the top issues we should be focusing on to meet our commercial goals and stakeholder expectations.
STAkEhOLDER  INCL uSIvENESS
We greatly value our stakeholders’ perspectives, and all Pfizer  units engage with stakeholders on relevant issues throughout  the year. Additionally, in keeping with the principle of stakeholder inclusiveness, we have interviewed key stakeholders to gain  their perspectives on our corporate responsibility performance  and on reporting expectations. Feedback from these interviews has been used to shape the content of this report, and direct commentary from stakeholders is included in some sections. If you wish to comment on the information in this report, we invite  
you to contact us online at www.pfizer.com/contact.
gLOBAL R EPORTIN g INITIATI vE Su STAINABILITY   
REPORTIN g guIDELINES
We considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines (G3) in preparing this report and include a comprehensive GRI index on our Web site www.pfizer.com/responsibility. We self-declare this report to GRI Application Level B. For information on GRI, please see www.globalreporting.org.INTRODUCTION
4To Our Stakeholders,
Whenever people need medicines to stay healthy or to get well, Pfizer wants to be there. We’re in business to discover, 
develop and deliver new medicines to people across the 
globe. It’s our most important contribution to the world.  But we know this alone is not enough. How we do our work matters just as much as what we do.
Cha IRmaN’s Le TTeR TO sT akeh OLD eRs
JEff kINDLER
Cha IRmaN Of The B OaRD aND  
ChIef e xeCUTI ve Off ICeR5 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityWe are committed to using our skills and resources responsibly 
as we develop solutions for the health care needs of people 
around the world. While this ongoing work will never be 
finished, we do pause from time to time to assess our progress. In this spirit, I am pleased to share with you Pfizer’s 2009 
Corporate Responsibility Report. 
Since our last report two years ago, unprecedented and historic 
economic changes have touched people in every part of the 
world and in every industry, including our own. The long-term effects of the global economic downturn likely will not be 
known for some time. But right now, it’s clear that millions of 
people have lost their jobs, their health care or their savings. And we know that in times like these, people expect more from 
us than ever before.
Pfizer has remained steadfastly focused on transforming our 
business, so that we will be better able to serve the needs of 
people everywhere. Early in 2009, Pfizer announced plans to acquire Wyeth, the fifth-largest biopharmaceutical company 
in the United States. Together, we will be a diverse and flexible 
leader in nearly all dimensions of human and animal medicines and vaccines—and a company well positioned to deliver more 
new heath care solutions to people in both developed and 
emerging countries in all parts of the world.
In times like these, some companies might choose to focus 
simply on running their businesses and think of their corporate responsibility work as a luxury that can wait for better times. 
Not Pfizer. We believe successful companies can’t do one 
without the other. The world’s economic problems have eroded the public’s trust in large businesses, and that’s just one reason 
why I personally believe that now is the most important time 
to reaffirm Pfizer’s commitment to responsible and sustainable business practices. 
The theme of our report this year is “The New Era of 
Responsibility” and speaks to Pfizer’s evolving responsibilities 
in a changing world. It is my firm belief that for companies to 
thrive they must adapt, must innovate. For Pfizer this means an even sharper focus on the health needs of society and a 
renewed commitment to fulfilling the role promised by our 
scale and expertise. 
In this report, you will find tangible results. You will see us 
reaching out to the communities where we operate. You will see new approaches to improving access to medicines 
and health care around the world, both through strategic 
philanthropic programs and new commercial models. You will also learn more about our efforts to provide greater clarity on 
our business practices and communicate more transparently 
with stakeholders.
This report begins to answer some of the questions we’ve 
asked ourselves. How can we ensure health care is accessible and affordable to people everywhere —in both the world’s 
poorest areas and its wealthiest? How do we continue to earn the trust that our customers put in Pfizer and our products, while also making sure they understand that all medicines 
have both benefits and risks? In a world that’s just beginning 
to understand the effects of energy use on climate change, how can we reduce our environmental footprint? How can we 
collaborate with people and their governments to help create 
an environment where innovative new medicines can be brought to market and where patients are able to receive the 
medicines they need?
As you read this report, you will see opportunities on  
www.pfizer.com to learn more about:
•	 Our	efforts	to	improve	public	health	around	the	world;
•	 Using	medicines	safely;
•		Our	clinical	trial	studies	of	experimental	new	medicines	 
and the post-marketing studies we conduct after medicines  are	on	the	market;
•	 The	progress	of	the	medicines	we’re	studying;
•	 Our	political	contributions;	
•		The	grants	we	give	to	medical	associations,	patient	groups	 
and	health	care	professionals;	and
•	 Our	environmental	performance.	
All of us at Pfizer are proud of the work described in this report. 
It reflects the tireless commitment of tens of thousands of colleagues working in more than 150 countries around the 
world. They have dedicated their careers to helping others live 
longer and healthier lives. As Pfizer’s Chairman and CEO, I’m inspired every day by their work.
Pfizer is continuing to evolve, and we remain committed to 
meeting your expectations. Every day, we come to work eager 
to embrace innovation, achieve results responsibly and help 
people everywhere improve their health. We look to the future with optimism, and we hope you do too.
Sincerely,
Jeff kindler
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive OfficerINTRODUCTION
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 6Pfizer Company Profile
Pfizer is the world’s largest research-based biopharmaceutical 
company. Our corporate headquarters is in New York City, and  our major research and development locations are in the United States and the U.K. In 2008, Pfizer generated $48.3 billion in revenues, earned $8.1 billion in profits after taxes, and invested $7.9 billion in research and development. We operate in nearly every market in the world, and 58 percent of our revenues are generated outside the U.S.
OPERATIONAL S TRuCTuRE
Pfizer’s Board of Directors is elected annually by shareholders  and is overwhelmingly composed of independent Directors.  The Board oversees management and is ultimately responsible  for management’s performance. More information is available  in the Governance section of this report.
Pfizer’s Chairman and CEO is Jeff Kindler, who was elected  
to these positions in 2006. He is supported by a nine-member executive leadership team. 
In 2008, we took a dramatic step to reshape Pfizer into a  
more flexible, entrepreneurial and accountable organization.  We completely reorganized our global market-leading Pharmaceutical segment into customer-focused business units devoted to Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Emerging Markets and Established Products.
This new approach enables us to move forward with the 
entrepreneurial zeal inherent in small businesses, backed by the scope and strength of a global enterprise.
3  read mOre a T www.PfIzER.COmPfizer Corporate Responsibility
Corporate responsibility is fundamental to Pfizer’s business and to our ability to achieve our mission of “Working together for a healthier world.” To do so, we must be committed to conducting our business in an ethical manner and putting patients’ needs first in everything we do and everywhere we operate. Through our corporate responsibility programs, we engage with stakeholders and align our business activities to ensure that we meet our responsibilities to respond to the evolving needs of society and contribute as a partner to the overall health and wellness of the world. 
CORPORATE  RESPONSIBILITY  gOvERNANCE
The charter of Pfizer’s Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance Committee now requires directors “to maintain an informed status on company issues related to corporate social responsibility and the company’s participation and visibility as a global corporate citizen, and to monitor emerging issues potentially affecting the reputation of the pharmaceutical industry and the company.”  This year, to improve Board oversight of corporate responsibility, Pfizer’s Corporate Responsibility team has begun providing biannual corporate responsibility updates to the Corporate 
Governance Committee of Pfizer’s Board of Directors on specific 
progress on corporate responsibility goals. 
Most of Pfizer’s corporate responsibility issues are managed 
within our business units and corporate group. This ensures that corporate responsibility is directly integrated into all of our work. Pfizer’s corporate responsibility efforts are coordinated globally by a team that is part of Worldwide Communications, whose leader is a member of executive leadership and reports directly to the CEO. The Corporate Responsibility team, led by the Vice President of Corporate Responsibility, is responsible for setting the strategic direction for corporate responsibility at Pfizer and supporting integration of corporate responsibility throughout the company. The Corporate Responsibility team also oversees the development of Pfizer’s corporate responsibility reports and communications, and manages engagement and partnerships with socially responsible investors and nongovernmental organizations. 
This year, we integrated our philanthropy function into our 
broader corporate responsibility function to better align our philanthropic programs with our corporate responsibility and business priorities. The Corporate Responsibility team is also responsible for the development and oversight of Pfizer’s global health programs described in the Access to Medicines section of 
this report.
INTE gRATION  Of C ORPORATE  RESPONSIBILITY
Integrating corporate responsibility into our business requires continuous effort to set the right priorities, allocate resources appropriately, and communicate and partner with stakeholders. This is especially challenging given the scale and scope of our company and our geographic diversity. To facilitate this process, we created a new Global Corporate Responsibility Colleague Network to connect all Pfizer colleagues who have corporate responsibility-related roles. This network helps implement global strategies at the local level, and identify and share information about emerging 
issues and best practices with the Corporate Responsibility team 
and peers around the world.7 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityStakeholder Engagement
Our relationships with stakeholders are fundamental to improving 
our corporate responsibility efforts. Engagement with Pfizer’s stakeholders helps us understand the larger context and impacts of our operations, learn about expectations for our performance, and assess emerging issues that may affect our business. 
We operate with a stakeholder model that recognizes the 
inherent interconnectedness of the goals of Pfizer and its stakeholders. This model informs an approach to engagement that moves beyond transactions between Pfizer and individual 
stakeholders to a network of connected organizations that all have 
important roles in addressing social and environmental issues.  This approach has helped us identify mutual perspectives and goals with stakeholders and to take a more collaborative approach to these relationships. Our overarching goal is the 
same
 —improved global health and prosperity. 
We have received essential input from stakeholders over the last 
two years. For example, in April 2008, stakeholders from more than 
a dozen public and private organizations met with Pfizer Global Operations leaders from around the world to help us develop our new Global Access to Medicines strategy. These stakeholders helped us define the opportunities and expectations associated with work in this area. Many of these stakeholders have become engaged partners in building this new approach to access.
Throughout the report, we have highlighted stakeholder 
feedback. Please look for these to learn more about how we engage with stakeholders and how they view our performance. 
American Cancer Society 
Axios InternationalBusiness for Social ResponsibilityCERESChoice PharmaDepartment for International DevelopmentF&C Management LimitedGlobal Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS,  
Tuberculosis and Malaria
Grameen HealthHarvard UniversityInterfaith Center for Corporate ResponsibilityInternational Finance CorporationMedicines for Malaria Venture
Microinsurance AcademyPharmAccess FoundationScojo FoundationThe American Enterprise InstituteThe Bill and Melinda Gates FoundationUNICEFUSAIDWaterAid World Bank World Health OrganizationWorld Heart FederationSOmE Of ThE STAkEhOLDERS wE hA vE w ORkED   
wITh IN ThE PAST YEAR:
PFIZER
PFIZERPFIZER
PFIZERPFIZERPFIZERPFIZERPFIZERCUSTOMERS
HEALTHCARE 
PARTNERSCOMMUNITIES
INVESTORSGOVERNMENTPATIENTS
COLLEAGUESBUSINESS
PARTNERSGLOBAL HEALTH
 AND ECONOMIC
PROSPERITY 
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8fOCuS AREA OBJECTIvE 2009 gOAL mETRIC mORE INf ORmATION
ACCESS TO mEDICINES Improve public health 
around the worldExplore strategies that 
improve health care through new, nontraditional business models that are commercially viable, scalable and  sustainable
Broaden access to medicines 
and strengthen health care delivery for underserved people around the worldDevelop Global Access  
Strategy to launch pilot programs and innovative partnerships  
Execute on Pfizer’s global 
health programs and publicly report progress.Access to Medicines 
   
Access to MedicinesCORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY  
STRATEg YIntegrate corporate  
responsibility into Pfizer’s core business processesIncrease Board-level oversight 
of the corporate responsibility function
 
Engage colleagues in all  
Pfizer geographies and 
business units in corporate 
responsibility 
Establish approach for regular 
feedback on Pfizer’s corporate responsibility reporting and performanceProvide biannual corporate 
responsibility updates to  the Corporate Governance Committee of Pfizer’s Board of Directors on progress  on goals and corporate responsibility issues
Established a Global  
Corporate Responsibility 
Colleague Network to link 
Pfizer colleagues around the world who have corporate responsibility-related roles
Hold an annual  
multistakeholder forum focused on feedback on  the 2008/09 Corporate  Responsibility ReportGovernance
Pfizer Corporate Responsibility
 
Pfizer Corporate Responsibility
facilitate responsible  
transitions during the 
economic recessionProvide laid-off Pfizer  
employees with resources to find new employment, careers, or other opportunities 
Enhance internal clarity about 
changes at Pfizer associated 
with the proposed acquisition 
of WyethEach laid-off Pfizer employee 
to use at least one of the Pfizer resources (including cash, outplacement and retraining allowances) during their transition
Implement communications 
strategies globally to help 
employees stay aware of 
impending changes and ease 
adjustmentsColleagues & Community 
Chairman’s Letter2008/2009 GO aLs
PATIENT S AfETY Develop and implement 
a program to protect the integrity of Pfizer medicinesIdentify and disrupt major 
manufacturers of counterfeit Pfizer products
Develop effective partnerships  
with enforcement and  
regulatory authorities around the world
Raise awareness of the risks 
that counterfeit medicines pose to patientsDevelop evidence base  
upon which authorities can take successful enforcement actions including raids,  seizures, arrests and filing  of criminal charges
Enlist support of key officials 
in anti-counterfeiting efforts through Memoranda of Understanding
Provide fact-based support for 
Pfizer’s policy initiatives with respect to anti-counterfeiting activitiesPatient Safety
  
Patient Safety
 
Patient Safety 
9 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilit yfOCuS AREA OBJECTIvE 2009 gOAL mETRIC mORE INf ORmATION
PuBLIC POLICY Support u.S. health care 
system reformT ake a leadership role in U.S. 
health care reform policy debates
Assist in bridging the current 
gap in prescription coverage for Americans who have recently lost coverage due to unemploymentEstablish Stakeholder Advisory 
Board to get input on health care reform and facilitate broader dialogue
Provide eligible individuals 
with free Pfizer medicines for up to a year or until they become re-insuredAccess to Medicines
Access to MedicinesRESEARC h  
& DEvELOPmENTImprove patient health 
worldwide by developing promising new medicines to treat the world’s most serious diseasesContinue to advance our 
development pipeline from Phase I through registration, especially in the high priority  disease areas
Use the new Business  
Unit (BU) model to ensure 
that these efforts remain 
responsive to the changing 
needs of patients worldwide   
 
 
Ensure that our R&D efforts 
remain aligned with our goal to expand research in neglected diseases        
Continue to invest in new 
technologies that will allow better utilization of our    medicines by physicians  and patients 
Expand our commitment       
to maintaining the highest  ethical standards and  transparency in our conduct of human clinical trials worldwideDeliver 15–20 Phase III 
starts	in	2008-2009;	24–28	programs in Phase III by end of	2009;	15–20	regulatory	submissions from 2010  to 2012
Handoff research projects from 
R&D to Business Units at proof 
of concept stage. Research 
Units and T echnology Units 
led by Chief Scientific Officers, supported by strong Partner Lines, with full access to large-
and small-molecule drug design 
platforms  
Continue our public- 
private partnerships in  the development of new treatments for malaria (WHO-TDR), our Zithromax/Chloroquine clinical trials, and Eurartesim®;	development	of	maraviroc as a microbiocide for	HIV;	and	the	joint	venture	with GlaxoSmithKline on new HIV/AIDS treatments 
Investment in development 
of biomarkers and diagnostic tools that allow better patient and physician utilization of our therapies 
Achieved new accreditation 
by the Association for the Accreditation of Human Research Protection Programs (AAHRPP) for ensuring the protection of human subjects taking part in early-stage clinical	trials;	maintain	our	leadership in publicly posting clinical trial summary results of all of our clinical trialsResearch & Development 
  
 
 
Research & Development 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Research & Development 
          
Research & Development 
    
Research & Development 
  
ENvIRONmENT, hEALTh  
AND SAfETYReduce our impact on the 
physical environmentContinue to reduce our  
GHG emissions 
Develop a more strategic 
approach to environmental sustainability as part of  Corporate Responsibility platformMeet our second generation  
goal to reduce our GHG emissions by 20 percent on an absolute basis between 2008 and 2012
Endorsement of the  
Environmental Sustainability  Strategy by Pfizer senior leadershipEnvironment, Health  
and Safety
Environment, Health  
and Safetywww.pfizer.com/responsibility 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 10INTRODUCTION
Pfizer’s Approach to Public Policy  
Engagement
At Pfizer, engaging in public policy is an important facet of our 
corporate responsibility efforts. The purpose of our public policy engagement is to create an enabling environment to improve access to medicines and health care. Effective public policies can help create an environment in which innovative new prescription medicines are brought to market at costs society can afford. We understand the complexity of the health care challenges facing the world, and further recognize that our role extends beyond discovering, developing and delivering pharmaceutical products. 
We also have a role in helping to find solutions to the systemic 
barriers to health care. At Pfizer, we are facing mounting pressures in the external environment on our commercial model—from growing pressures to increase transparency in pricing models and clinical trials, to changing standards for responsible product promotion, to the need to identify and manage risk ourselves rather than relying on regulatory agencies for oversight. Similarly, we are also acutely aware of the increasing role of government in addressing health care issues, and that this will have a direct effect on our ability to achieve commercial success and meet our obligations to stakeholders. 
In response to these pressures, we are engaging with 
governments around the world, as well as with private and public institutions, and our industry peers to address a wide range of policy issues. These include policies that would limit the choices of doctors and patients, potentially dilute intellectual property protection, impose price controls on health care products and 
services, and allow the unfettered importation of medicines across 
national borders. Our policy positions are based on the following longstanding principles:
•	 Promoting	access	to	quality	health	care	
•	 Patient	preference•	 Clinician	autonomy•		Openness	and	flexibility	with	regard	to	new	business	models	 
to increase access to medicines
•	 Market-based	competition•	 Transparency	throughout	the	business	•		Protection	for	information	contained	in	patents	and	clinical	 
data that maintains incentives for innovation
3  read mOre a T www.PfIzER.COm/POLICY
At Pfizer, we recognize that to continue to put patients at  
the core of our mission will require us to be even more active in  our approach to public policy. Our new approach is driven by two key insights: we must expand our engagement with all stakeholders, and we must be a more proactive participant in  the discussions and debates that shape health care policy in order to promote better health now and for future generations. Pfizer is currently taking steps to engage with a much broader range of stakeholders, including nongovernmental organizations, 
multilateral organizations, academic institutions and labor unions 
to discuss viewpoints, candidly and thoroughly, with our critics.  These relationships are being centered more on collectively 
developing health care solutions and less on reaction to the loudest or most visible stakeholders. We are also driving more partnerships at local levels so that we have strong relationships with the communities where we live and work, and ensure we remain connected to the needs and constraints of our customers. 
Expanded engagement supports Pfizer’s need to be more 
proactive on policy issues. By enabling us to identify emerging issues and anticipate the direction of policy debates, engagement 
helps us encourage outcomes that benefit society over the long 
term, and sustains our ability to produce new medicines for unmet medical needs. For example, we have become more active on issues of U.S. health care reform. More information on our efforts in health care reform is provided in the Access to Medicines section 
of this report. 
We are also working with governments around the world on 
issues of access to medicines as well as health care delivery and financing. For example, Pfizer CEO, Jeff Kindler, has testified to Congress on proposed policy solutions to balance the need to provide affordable access to medicines with intellectual property protection. Following his testimony, Jeff partnered with Professor John Barton of Stanford University, an expert on intellectual property, to develop a practical policy vision to provide access to medicines in low- and middle-income countries while preserving incentives for innovation. This initiative underscores Pfizer’s willingness to be flexible and open to different approaches.
Public policy positioning is a crucial component of  
achieving commercial and social sustainability at Pfizer. Moving forward, we will continue to focus our efforts on expanding stakeholder engagement and taking a proactive leadership role  in policy debates, particularly on health care reform. We will  also concentrate on developing a policy framework to support new  
and expanding product areas, such as vaccines, nutritionals, oncology and biologic medicines. 
To demonstrate how our participation in public policy debates  
is helping us to fulfill our mission of working together for a  healthier world, we have chosen to highlight several public policy positions and issues throughout this year’s report. Please look  for these “Spotlight on Public Policy” features and visit the  Public Policy section of our Web site for more information. We included information on our policy and lobbying efforts in the Governance section.
3  read mOre a T www.PfIzER.COm/RESPONSIBILITY
  11 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibility
the new  
eRA of  
Responsibility
The PfIzeR COmm ITmeNT fOR  
TOD ay & TO mORRO wwww.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 12The N ew e Ra Of ResPON sIBILIT y
Since our last corporate responsibility report in 2007, the 
world has changed dramatically. Although trust in business 
had already been dampened by corporate scandals and  
the collapse of a handful of businesses earlier in the  
decade, the current financial crisis has raised levels of public 
distrust of large multinational corporations to all-time highs. At the same time, the role of government in regulating 
business and addressing societal needs has intensified 
dramatically. Finally, environmental and social issues such  as climate change and access to health care, once the 
purview of small groups of stakeholders, are now highly  
visible public policy issues.
These shifts are rapidly changing expectations for business. 
Governments around the world are demanding that businesses improve transparency and adopt a more  
holistic perspective on creating value. Several countries  
have passed legislation supporting, and, in some cases 
requiring, corporations to report on their social and 
environmental performance.
Increasingly investors are including aspects of corporate 
responsibility performance as indicators of strong corporate 
governance, risk management or overall management  
quality. And recent consumer surveys show that the  
demand for socially responsible products and services continues to intensify. 
13 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityAt Pfizer, these developments have coincided with significant 
changes within our company. We have reorganized to take 
advantage of our size and scale while committing to operate 
with the agility, speed and focus of an entrepreneurial 
organization. We are also pursuing several strategies, 
including a greater focus on emerging markets and creating new opportunities for our established products—medicines 
that have lost, or will soon lose exclusivity. We have integrated 
our global health programs into our broader corporate responsibility efforts to better align our philanthropic 
programs, corporate responsibility initiatives and business 
priorities. Our Executive Leadership T eam has championed 
the development of a new corporate responsibility strategy 
for Pfizer. And most recently, we announced an agreement  to acquire Wyeth, the fifth-largest pharmaceutical company 
in the U.S.
We recognize it is not just “what we do” that matters, but 
also “how we do it” that defines corporate responsibility 
at Pfizer. We face many challenges in meeting these new responsibilities. How can we manage our growth responsibly 
while also responsibly handling contractions in our business? 
How can we embed our approach to responsibility into 
decision-making in all parts of the business and all places 
where we do business? And how can we capitalize on the proposed Wyeth acquisition to meet the ever-evolving 
expectations of our stakeholders?
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14
The N ew e Ra Of ResPON sIBILIT y
We are committed to doing things 
differently—including taking a new 
approach to continue to build trust in our 
business and satisfy the needs of people 
today while protecting the interests of 
tomorrow’s generation. To meet these new responsibilities, Pfizer will need to increase 
the integration of corporate responsibility 
issues into our business and expand our collaborations with all stakeholders. Our 
activities over the last two years have set us 
on the path to meeting these objectives, and 
we are making additional efforts to ensure 
that we meet society’s expectations as our company grows. ouR  
AppRoACh
15 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibility
This new era of responsibility will require that companies move 
beyond a corporate responsibility outlook that only addresses certain “corporate responsibility issues” to make responsibility part of all business operations. At Pfizer, we have taken several steps to improve the integration of responsibility into our business processes and goals. For example, although we have a very robust portfolio of philanthropic and collaborative programs to provide access to our medicines, we have taken the next step toward making access a key consideration in all of our business in the 
developing world by building a new Global Access strategy in 
our Emerging Markets Business Unit. This strategy, described in more detail in the Access to Medicines section of this report, will 
explore commercially viable and socially responsible opportunities to market our products to underserved populations around the world. We are also exploring exciting new opportunities that may develop from Pfizer’s planned acquisition of Wyeth, particularly in the vaccines, consumer health care products, and nutritionals businesses that are now part of Wyeth.
Pfizer is also building on the strengths of our environmental 
program to enhance sustainable practices throughout our 
businesses. While we are proud of our environmental initiatives and 
our many achievements over the years, the objective is to develop a more integrated and strategic approach. This includes creating a framework to prioritize short- and long-term environmental activities, a basis for communicating and engaging with stakeholders and a foundation that aligns with Pfizer’s overall corporate responsibility platform to reduce our environmental impact on a global basis.
We have also developed a new Global Colleague Network to link 
Pfizer colleagues around the world who have corporate responsibility-related responsibilities. The Network is designed to ensure global alignment on corporate responsibility policies and practices and help integrate responsibility issues throughout our business units.INTE gRATION
1www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 16
The N ew e Ra Of ResPON sIBILIT y
At Pfizer, we recognize that our business doesn’t operate in a 
vacuum and is intricately connected to the world’s health care systems. We are taking steps to become more active in policy debates, such as health care reform in the U.S. We are earnestly engaging in discussions and dialogue with governments and other key policy stakeholders to ensure that policies support our ability to bring innovative prescription medicines to market and that patients are able to receive the medicines they need.
We also appreciate that real partnerships are required to meet 
our responsibilities within our supply chain. For several years now, Pfizer has been monitoring our suppliers to ensure that our business with them does not indirectly create negative effects on the environment and that workers’ rights are protected. However, monitoring is not sufficient to minimize effects and guarantee good labor conditions. In many cases, our suppliers are eager to meet our standards for responsible business but lack the knowledge or capacity to improve their operations. To help address this, we have created several initiatives and participated in a number of partnerships that are detailed further in the Manufacturing & Supply Chain section of this report.COLLABORATION 217 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibility
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 18
The N ew e Ra Of ResPON sIBILIT y
19 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibility
We have taken many steps over the last two years to make 
more information about our business available to the public. For instance, we recognize that there are questions about the strength of governance at global corporations. We are committed to communicating openly about our governance structures and processes. In the Governance section of this report, for example, we 
have reported on our efforts to revise our executive compensation policy to address stakeholder concerns. 
We also understand the importance of providing clearer 
information about our medicines and science. We are now making the results of all our clinical trials available through the Research & Developmen t section of our Web site. These disclosures discuss 
our approaches and protocols for trials, as well as all results, favorable and unfavorable of these trials. We have also begun disclosing all the grants and charitable contributions Pfizer makes to U.S.-based medical, scientific and patient organizations. We have announced our intention to begin disclosing payments to U.S. doctors and clinicians outside our company who do critical work with us. And we have put on our Web site one of the world’s most comprehensive guides to the safety of medicines, giving patients much more information for assessing the benefits and risks of medications they are taking or considering.CLARITY  AND  CANDOR
3www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20
The N ew e Ra Of ResPON sIBILIT y21 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibility
As we write this report, the world around us continues to change, as do  
expectations of business. Our responsibility is to meet those expectations  
head-on. We have a vision of Pfizer continuing to improve lives around the  
world, not just for those who take our medicines but also for those whom 
our business touches.
We believe that Pfizer’s planned acquisition of Wyeth will position us to 
better meet these challenges and that through further integration of 
corporate responsibility into our business, collaboration and clarity and 
candor in all that we do, we are on the right path the meet the challenges 
of this new era of responsibility.looking foR wARD22ReseARCh &  
DeVelopment23 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityAs advances in medical care help more and more people 
live longer lives, the need for new medicines to keep people 
healthy continues to grow. Pfizer researchers and scientists 
are working to discover and develop new ways to treat and prevent life-threatening and debilitating illnesses like Alzheimer’s disease and cancer, as well as to improve 
wellness and quality of life across a range of therapeutic 
areas. At Pfizer, we are focusing on developing treatments for unmet medical needs inspired by a single goal: patient 
health. This is why we are dedicated to developing 
promising new medicines to prevent and treat the world’s most serious diseases. We believe that from progress comes hope, and the promise of a healthier world. 
Pfizer’s research & development teams are focused on nine therapeutic and 
disease areas that span a broad range of medical needs. Our current pipeline reflects a 
therapeutic-area focus with 100 programs in Phase I through Phase III. From March 2008 to September 2008, 21 programs advanced in the pipeline— 12 of them in the identified high-priority disease areas of diabetes, oncology, inflammation/immunology, Alzheimer’s disease, psychoses and pain. 
Pfizer’s recently established business units—for Primary Care, Specialty, Oncology, 
Established Products, and Emerging Markets—are designed to respond to customers’ and patients’ changing needs and to ensure the alignment of research and development 
activities with these needs. 
3  read mOre a T www.PfIzER.COm/RESEARChhIG hLIGhTs
Signed an agreement with medicines 
for malaria Venture (mm V) to provide 
mmV with access to the Pfizer library 
of novel chemical entities to screen for compounds that could be developed into new treatments for malaria.
Obtained first accreditation in the 
pharmaceutical industry by the 
association for the accreditation of Human r esearch Protection Program 
(aaHrP) for protection of human rights in clinical research.
registered over 1,183 trials to 
www.clinicaltrials.gov. In addition, 885 
summaries of trial results have been posted on www.clinicalstudyresults.org.
PfIzeR DIsease ReseaRCh aReas
1 
NeUROsCIeNCe
alzheimer’s disease
SchizophreniaBipolar disorderautism
2 
aLLeRG y/ 
ResPIRa TOR y
allergic rhinitis
asthmaCOPd3
INfeCTIOUs DIsease  
ANTIBACTERIAL
antibiotics, focused 
and broad-spectrum
4
INfeCTIOUs DIsease  
ANTIVIRAL
Hepatitis C
HIV
5
ONCOLOG y
anti-angiogenesis 
agents
Cytotoxic agentsImmunotherapy/ 
Vaccines
Signal  
transduction agents6 
INfLamma TION
General  
anti-Inflammation 
agents
rheumatoid arthritis
OsteoarthritisSuper  
anti-Inflammation
7 
GeNITOURINaR y 
sexU aL heaLTh
Gynecology
Urology8 
PaIN
Inflammatory pain
Neuropathic pain Nociceptive painOsteoarthritis pain
Severe chronic pain
9 
CaRDIO vasCULaR
meT aBOLIC
eNDOCRINe  
DIsORDeRs
diabetes
Please note that the designation “Disease Research Area” does not include programs that are continuing in clinical trials 
through in-licensed or co-development collaborations but do not have corresponding active discovery research programs. 
Furthermore, Pfizer may initiate new programs as necessary in response to new discoveries and unmet medical needs.1
23
4
5
67
89Resea RCh & D eve LOP meNT
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24Pfizer is committed to the discovery, 
investigation and development of innovative treatment options for cancer patients worldwide, including the use of targeted agents in specific patient populations in several advanced and difficult-to-treat cancers. Our robust pipeline consists of 21 biologics and small molecules in clinical development and 
over 200 clinical trials, including a robust 
Phase III clinical trial program for Sutent. By working collaboratively with academic institutions, researchers, governments and licensing partners, Pfizer strives to transform treatment by targeting the right drug for the right patient at the right time. 
Expanding Research for 
Neglected Diseases 
We have a shared responsibility to 
conduct research about diseases that disproportionately affect people in the developing world and will continue our efforts to help meet this global health challenge. As one company, however, we are limited in our ability to solve such universal health problems and recognize that multisector solutions are needed.  
We believe that public-private partnerships 
are essential to making progress on this front, with each partner contributing unique assets and expertise toward common goals. 
EffORTS TO C OmBAT mALARIA
Malaria continues to be an endemic disease in sub-Saharan Africa and is one of the leading causes of infant mortality. The World Health Organization estimates that in 2006, 247 million people worldwide had malaria and 881,000 died from the disease.
1 Ninety percent of these 
deaths occurred in Africa. In addition to our Mobilize Against Malaria initiative described in the Access to Medicines section of this report, Pfizer has significant ongoing research programs to develop new antimalarial drugs. The following are examples of research where Pfizer is advancing the fight against malaria:•	
 exPl Ora TOry reSear CH Par TNerSHIPS  
Pfizer is collaborating with the World Health Organization’s Special Programme for Research in Tropical Diseases (WHO-TDR) to target malaria and other neglected diseases by giving TDR access to Pfizer’s library of medicinal compounds and bringing scientists from developing countries into 
Pfizer’s laboratories for training in drug 
discovery techniques. This collaboration, based at Pfizer’s Sandwich, U.K. site, has identified a number of novel compounds with antimalarial activity. 
  Pfizer scientists and three WHO-TDR Fellows are now working together to modify these compounds to have 
improved pharmaceutical properties.  
If successful, this effort will feed potential new therapies into our malaria pipeline while providing state-of-the-art training in drug discovery for the  WHO-TDR Fellows. 
  Pfizer will be hosting two developing world clinical researchers as part of the 
new TDR program of Clinical R&D career 
development fellowships, funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. During the 12-month program, each Fellow will receive specialized in-house training and acquire experience in clinical project management, regulatory compliance and good practices while assisting with clinical trials on new therapies for malaria and tuberculosis.
  Pfizer has also agreed to provide Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) with access to Pfizer’s chemical library to screen for compounds that have potential to be developed into novel treatments for malaria. 
  While these are early-stage research efforts, with effective new treatments still years away, public-private collaborations starting at the beginning of the drug discovery process are vital to ensure a pipeline of potential new medicines to combat the emergence  of resistance.
•		
azITHr Omy CIN/CHl OrOqUINe   
Pfizer has identified, in consultation with global stakeholders, that the combination of azithromycin and chloroquine (AZCQ) could be a safe and effective option for Intermittent Preventive Therapy (IPTp) in pregnant women in sub-Saharan Africa. This is significant in that there is a high 
unmet medical need due to increased 
resistance and/or safety concerns with existing drugs and a shortage of drugs for IPTp in the global malaria R&D pipeline. The findings are based on the results from two clinical trials for the treatment of symptomatic uncomplicated malaria in adults in sub-Saharan Africa. The clinical development of AZCQ for IPTp in sub-Saharan Africa is being planned in consultation with Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicines.
•		
eUrar TeSIm® Pfizer and the Italian 
firm Sigma-T au have a license and supply agreement for the companies to market Eurartesim,
® a novel fixed- 
dose artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACT), in Africa. The drug, which is currently in clinical trials, aims to treat uncomplicated malaria in adults and children, while reducing the potential for re-infection. The product candidate, developed jointly by Medicines for Malaria Venture and 
Sigma-T au, is expected to be filed for 
registration in 2009, and has already been granted orphan drug status by both the European and U.S. regulatory authorities. 
  Through this partnership, Pfizer is advancing global health and strengthening our business in emerging 
markets. While Sigma-T au will have  
the rights to sell this drug to governments and other public entities, Pfizer will have general commercial rights to this medicine in Africa. This arrangement will allow Pfizer to expand access for underserved populations to this medicine while realizing a commercial return, an approach we believe will prove sustainable for our business and for society. 
1  World Health Organization. “World Malaria Report 
2008.” Available online at: http://apps.who.int/malaria/
wmr2008/ .25 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityShARIN g AN I NNO vATIvE  
NEw h Iv mEDICINE  
In January 2008 Pfizer signed a royalty-
free agreement with the International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) to allow IPM to develop maraviroc, Pfizer’s HIV treatment, as a microbicide for the prevention of HIV infection. Microbicides are products, such as gels and films, which could be applied vaginally to prevent transmission of HIV. Under this 
agreement, Pfizer will provide assistance 
to IPM to develop maraviroc as a vaginal microbicide. IPM has the rights to develop, manufacture and distribute the microbicide in developing countries. 
Opportunities in New 
T echnology
Pfizer is also investing in technology to 
improve the clinical benefit of our products and to deliver better patient management through tools that can predict and diagnose diseases, research patient outcomes, or assist in patient compliance and post-treatment monitoring.
We are also in search of physician-
directed and patient-managed diagnostic 
tools for better patient monitoring. For 
doctors, these include simple-to-use office-based tools that quickly provide information to aid physicians in providing better diagnosis, treatment and ultimately better patient management. For patients these include portable devices that measure heart function, glucose level or blood pressure. 
Clinical Trials 
Clinical trials are one of the most important steps in the research process. Pfizer is committed to the safety of patients who take part in our clinical trials and to upholding the highest ethical standards. By establishing and following rigorous clinical trial, pharmacovigilence, and regulatory policies, we strive to maintain the highest ethical, scientific 
and clinical standards in all our clinical 
research around the world. We regularly review these policies to align them with Pfizer’s vision, values and goals, and with our stakeholders’ expectations, and have posted our key policies for ensuring human subject protection on www.pfizer.com/
clinicaltrials. We take great care to ensure that all of our sponsored clinical studies are conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations, as well as with established international standards. 
In early 2009, Pfizer became the first 
pharmaceutical company to be accredited by the Association for the Accreditation of Human Research Protection Programs (AAHRPP) for ensuring the protection of human subjects taking part in early-stage clinical trials. This accreditation was awarded to our Phase I clinical 
research units in the U.S., Belgium and 
Singapore. To earn the accreditation, Pfizer participated in a rigorous, 15-month examination of the clinical research practices at these units. 
We are also a leader in making the 
results of our trials available to the public and to our stakeholders. We publicly post clinical trial summary results of all our clinical trials, including those where further development has been discontinued. Summaries of 885 trial results have been posted thus far on www.clinicalstudyresults.org and more than 1,183 trials have been registered  and posted on www.clinicaltrials.gov.  This year, Pfizer began a pilot for 
distribution of information to participants 
in clinical trials from the Medical Heroes Program, sponsored by the Center for Information & Study on Clinical Research Participation.
COmPENSATION TO I NvESTI gATORS   
IN C LINICAL T RIALS
Over the past few years, there has been a growing concern over how patients are recruited for clinical trials and about payments and bonuses to physicians who enroll patients in trials sponsored by pharmaceutical companies. 
In 2008, Pfizer collaborated with 
almost 8,000 clinical investigators to conduct more than 280 studies to better 
understand how our medicines can be 
safely and effectively used to the benefit of patients. Pfizer compensates outside investigators for their work in conducting Pfizer-sponsored clinical studies and for providing services to Pfizer related to those studies. Financial compensation for conducting clinical trials for us, for consulting advice, or other services related to our studies and research programs, are only made for bona fide services rendered to Pfizer. Compensation is documented and must adhere to the Pfizer Global Policy on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and our polices for compensation of investigators. 
As part of our new policy on 
compensation to investigators, Pfizer will begin posting information, in 2010, about payments made to those primary investigators and their institutions for Pfizer studies run in the U.S.
ThE gLOBALI zATION O f CLINICAL T RIALS
Clinical trials of pharmaceuticals are expanding globally, in part to ensure that the intended demographic for medicine is the same demographic that participates in trials. We run trials in more than 60 countries and continue to identify new, qualified physician-investigators and research sites. In addition, we only place studies in those markets where 
the medicine will be made available 
(commercialized) if it is proven to be safe and effective. During 2009, Pfizer offered compassionate use or expanded access programs to patients who participated  in our trials. 
Pfizer trials are increasingly moving into 
countries in the developing world. Pfizer’s research is done to international standards, including the International Conference of Harmonization (ICH) Good Clinical Practices (GCP) Guidelines (1996) and the principles in the Declaration of Helsinki (2008), regardless of where the trial site is located around the world. While our trials often offer health benefits to the patients who enroll, we do not pay patients to enroll 
in these trials. We also are careful in using 
placebos in our studies as controls, and do not use placebos, or withhold life-saving medicine, in any study where doing so would harm study participants. Additional information on our standard for multi-regional trials and how we respect the rights of participants are also posted on www.pfizer.com/globalizationoftrials.
As the number of our clinical trials in 
emerging countries continues to increase so does our reliance on qualified and highly competent local investigators. Training has become an essential activity. Training needs to include (and indeed may be more effective), if ethics committee members, regulators and others, in addition to 
investigators, all participate. Last year, 
Pfizer worked to establish investigator and study staff training pilots in India Resea RCh & D eve LOP meNT
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26and Korea that engaged experts outside 
of the investigators themselves. We are extending this outreach and training to other nations where we are expanding clinical trials, including Turkey, China, Brazil, India, Mexico and in Africa. 
To improve the way that clinical trials 
are conducted, we have developed a series of case studies, focusing on challenges 
that Pfizer has faced in the developing 
world. These are intended to be used as discussion pieces with new partners in developing markets, and in internal training, and are posted at www.pfizer.com. 
In addition, Pfizer has made a grant to the Clinical Trial Centre of the University of Hong Kong for the development of a manual for ethics committee and IRB members that is intended to improve local capabilities, especially with regard to the review of multi-regional trials that involve the developing world.
Stem Cells 
For more than a decade, Pfizer has been using animal or adult stem cells in its laboratories to help screen new compounds and identify safer and more effective medicines. We acknowledge the sensitive ethical issues surrounding stem cell use, and strongly oppose cloning, but we believe that stem cell research, conducted in accord with laws and 
regulations, is an important tool in the 
search for innovative new medicines.
With compelling evidence from this 
research, Pfizer has begun to explore accessing drug development technology from leading academic, biotechnology and pharmaceutical partners around the world, who also have experience with currently-available, human embryonic stem cell lines that meet the highest ethical standards set by leading scientific authorities. Pfizer’s Stem Cell Policy (www.pfizer.com) guides the company’s research activities and its exploration of new external partnerships. 
Pfizer recently launched a new 
Regenerative Medicine Unit, whose mission is to build upon recent scientific 
progress in understanding the biology of all 
types of stem cells, and to leverage these opportunities to discover and develop a new generation of regenerative medicines for major medical needs. Through our work with strategic alliance partners, academic researchers and patient advocate groups, Pfizer seeks to further develop these technologies and provide new therapies for patients around the world.“Animal Care and Use
Pfizer’s Animal Care and Use Policy (www.pfizer.com) reflects our absolute commitment that animals used in research are treated humanely. This means that any research involving animals is conducted only after appropriate ethical consideration and review. This review ensures that we provide a high level of care to experimental animals, and that there is no scientifically appropriate and validated alternative to the use of animals that is acceptable to regulators, where relevant. For as long as it remains necessary to use animals in biomedical research for the discovery, development and evaluation of new medicines, we commit to maintaining the highest standards in the humane treatment of these animals.
DR. ChRIs heNTsCheL
CEO, MEDICINES FOR MALARIA VENTURE (MMV)Pfizer, as the world’s largest 
pharmaceutical company, would be expected to have a dominant position in its corporate responsibility efforts related to diseases of the developing world but this was not always the case. 
Recently this began to change dramatically at Pfizer, and a real 
sense of catch up with the leaders in this area (as for example tabulated in the Access to Medicines Index) now permeates Pfizer’s actions and communications. Pfizer also now clearly has a partnership mindset, a key to successful execution in this space. In April 2009 Pfizer and the Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV) signed an agreement designed to facilitate advancements in  the battle against malaria. MMV will have access to the Pfizer library of novel chemical entities, in order to screen it for compounds with potential to be developed into new malaria treatments. Our partnership extends to collaborating on the Phase III clinical development of a novel intermittent preventive treatment for malaria in pregnant women. Such partnerships  are key to building a strong antimalarial pipeline to ultimately reach the goal of malaria eradication.”sTakeh OLD eR CO mme NTaRy 
“27 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilitylooking f oRwARD
Given the enormous potential benefits that our drug 
portfolio brings to patients and their caregivers, Pfizer  
is focusing on remaining a top tier health care company 
and a recognized leader in the development of innovative drugs and treatments for disease. The recent scientific advances that have been made in biologics 
therapies, stem cells, and new disease models, have 
tremendous potential, even against feared conditions such as paralysis. However, the cost of research and 
development to get a new drug approved and into the 
hands of doctors now exceeds $1 billion, with only one in 10 drugs in clinical trials gaining regulatory clearance. Other issues also remain with the clinical trial process, 
including the increasing number of trials required in 
developing countries. 
It is clear that today’s regulatory and economic 
challenges need to be addressed in ways that preserve our ability to innovate for the benefit of millions of patients who depend upon us to live healthier lives. This will require a working partnership involving the 
industry, government regulators, academia, physicians, 
pharmacists, patient advocate groups and drug benefit payers. Pfizer is collaborating with all of these parties 
in order to achieve a common goal of providing safe, 
effective, high value therapies to patients in need.  It will truly take a global effort and the contributions  of everyone to successfully address these challenges. aCC ess TO me DICIN es
28
ACCess to 
meDiCines29 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityhIG hLIGhTs
Formed a new Global access Strategy 
group to explore innovative approaches to increase access to medicines in the developing world. 
expanded Global Health Fellows program 
to work with underserved communities in 
europe and the United States to improve 
the efficiency and impact of small- to 
mid-sized health care organizations and access to health care. 
launched maINT aIN
Tm program in 
the United States to help eligible 
unemployed individuals and their  families maintain access to their  Pfizer medications.Providing adequate access to medicines and health care 
is one of the most challenging issues facing society today. 
While scientific knowledge and health care products 
and services have advanced exponentially over the last generation, millions of people around the world still die from preventable and curable diseases because they 
lack access to basic medicines and medical services. 
Disparities in health and health care remain pervasive and problematic. The World Health Organization 
estimates that one-third of the world’s population is 
unable to get even the cheapest essential drugs for common diseases. And this issue is not limited to the developing world—in the current economic environment, 
individuals in developed nations increasingly face serious 
challenges in obtaining good-quality medical care.
The implications of existing disparities are 
dramatic. Poor health impedes individuals’ ability to seek educational opportunities, to attain regular employment and to reach full lifespans. Disparities in health and health care are not only a burden on communities and individuals, but are also a considerable cost to our society.
The barriers to access are significant 
and entrenched throughout health care systems. In developing countries, health care infrastructures are often inadequate to provide care and distribute medicines, and in the developed world, these systems are often beyond the reach of the uninsured. Additionally, pharmaceutical companies have not traditionally focused on diseases of the developing world due to the limited potential for return on investment, especially considering the extent of investment required for novel drug development.
PfIzER’S APPROAC h
We believe that improving access to medicines around the world is one of  our most pressing responsibilities. We recognize that we have yet to meet our full potential, as reflected in pharmaceutical company rankings such as the Access to Medicines Index ranking, and value the feedback and insights provided by the many stakeholders we engage and partner with on access to medicine issues. This year, we launched a two-pronged approach to help people get the medicines and services they need:
•		A	Global	Access	Strategy	within	 
the Emerging Markets Business Unit, dedicated to exploring and developing new business models that will improve access to quality medicines in a commercially viable, socially responsible manner to patients facing cost as a barrier to basic health care. 
•		A	robust	portfolio	of	global	health	
programs to improve access for patients and build health care capacity globally.
We believe that by integrating our new commercial access strategy into the business, and supplementing it with strong global health programs, Pfizer will be best positioned to meet public health needs in a sustainable manner, now and in the future.Building a Sustainable Global 
Access Strategy 
Approximately 4 billion people, 72 percent 
of the world’s population, live on less than three dollars a day. In general, these individuals do not have regular access to essential health care. Instead, most of their care is focused on acute and emergency care, and quality care delivered by trained health care workers is often unaffordable. Providing good-quality health care 
(including medications) to this population 
remains one of the most challenging and urgent humanitarian issues of our time.
As a global health care company, 
Pfizer acknowledges the depth of these global health challenges, yet we see these statistics as indicators of opportunity as well as challenges. Between 50 to 90 percent of annual total health care expenditures by the world’s poorest people, approximately $30 billion annually, goes to pay for medicines. This represents an extraordinary business opportunity for Pfizer to address the needs of a traditionally neglected consumer. aCC ess TO me DICIN es
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 30Our recognition of these opportunities, 
along with input from many global health 
organizations, has led to the creation of a Global Access team within the new Emerging Markets Business Unit. In many developing countries, health care infrastructures are weak and funded through governments or charitable organizations, and awareness of disease 
prevention and health care is limited.
Approaching the underserved as 
valued patients and customers offers new 
opportunities and challenges for Pfizer. We will continue to define our overall approach and explore a variety of frameworks,  and have committed to testing several pilot strategies:
exPl OrING FINaNCe mOdelS FOr  
Heal TH Care We work with partners to 
enhance understanding of microfinance programs and their ability to increase access to medicines and health care for the underserved populations in emerging markets. For example, in September 2008 Pfizer developed a partnership with Grameen Health to explore sustainable models for health care delivery in the 
developing world. Pfizer and Grameen 
Health will jointly evaluate ways to improve Grameen Health’s existing health care delivery systems and primary care clinics in rural Bangladesh with the goal of identifying appropriate business models that ultimately can be replicated in other countries. We have also developed a partnership with PlaNet Finance, a nongovernmental organization that works in more than 60 countries to alleviate poverty through the development of microfinance and microinsurance. Through this partnership, we will assess existing sources and availability of medicines, patient purchasing patterns, and the level of access to medical services among the 
working poor in China, a population of 
approximately 500 million. With findings from the research, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2009, Pfizer and PlaNet Finance will work to identify models that will help improve access to medicines and health care services in China. 
We recognize that pricing and licensing 
are important issues to our stakeholders and we are committed to continuing to explore these tools, particularly as we develop our global access strategy.Throughout 2009, the Global 
Access team will launch additional pilot programs to assess the strategies above. For instance, we will explore how new business partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies can expand our ability to develop and distribute medicines to underserved patients. We expect that these pilots will lead to a new formal strategy that will be designed to sustainably support our growth in 
emerging markets as well as to improve 
access to medicines for hundreds of thousands of the most underserved patients in the world. 
PrOVIdING FOr UNderSer Ved P aTIeNTS IN  
deVel OPed COUNTrIeS Our Established 
Products Business Unit extends our commitment to access by providing underserved patients in developed countries with affordable medicines characterized by Pfizer’s reputation for quality, safety and innovation. A key component of this work is the exploration of new partnerships, as evidenced by our 
collaborations with Aurobindo Pharma 
and Claris Lifesciences over the past two years. In total, we have added 128 generic products, including the basic building blocks of health care such as anti-infectives and pain medications, to our broad range of off-patent Pfizer medicines available in the United States, Europe, Canada, Asia, Australia and New Zealand. We will continue to expand our product offering, increasing access to affordable medicines to a growing number of patients with diverse health care needs.
Quality and supply reliability—both 
of which are too often lacking in the generics industry—are also important factors in patient access. Pfizer’s broad 
and deep manufacturing capabilities, and 
proven track record of safety and efficacy, ensures patients have consistent access to medications they can trust.
Our Established Products Business 
Unit will also help patients who need treatments that are not readily available on the market. Leveraging our unique scientific and manufacturing capabilities, and taking advantage of scale, Pfizer will make inroads into “niche” categories such as sterile injectables, biosimilars and orphan drugs.deVel OPING New COmmer CIal mOdelS  
We aim to increase access to affordable, 
high-quality medicines. For example, in a move that could change health care delivery for millions of people, Pfizer Venezuela has launched Comunidad más saludable or “Healthier Community,” a sustainable, locally-designed, community-based initiative aimed at improving access 
to care for the nation’s poor. Comunidad 
más saludable utilizes community sales representatives who visit health clinics in low-income neighborhoods with which they are familiar to promote Pfizer products and encourage health care professionals’ education and diagnostics capabilities. At the doctor’s office, patients receive—together with their prescription—direct discount coupons for improved access to Pfizer products. Patients also enroll in value-added disease management programs to improve treatment compliance. 
eNGaGING INSTITUTIONal BU yerS  
We are creating a business model to enable business expansion and to support efforts to make quality medicines available to the poor in developing countries through key agencies such as UNICEF and USAID. Given the input of many stakeholders, including the members of Pfizer’s Emerging Markets Customer Advisory Board, we see several 
opportunities for customers to work with 
Pfizer to build a sustainable business model. The Advisory Board helps Pfizer better understand economic and health policy trends, market dynamics and socio-political developments unique to emerging markets. Through this group, Pfizer engages global business leaders, health care stakeholders, academic experts and representatives from nongovernmental and multilateral organizations.
CONdUCTING r&d FOr dISeaSeS OF THe 
deVel OPING w Orld We are leveraging 
Pfizer’s existing programs in diseases that 
are prevalent in the developing world to address neglected diseases. 
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/RESEARCh
 
PrOVIdING a CCeSS TO INNOV aTIVe 
PrOdUCTS Incorporate global access 
elements in planning for new products 
to meet the needs of underserved populations. More information on this work is available in the Research & Development section of this report.31 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityPfizer and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) 
recently agreed to create a new HIV 
company focused solely on research, development and commercialization of HIV medicines. The new business which combines the pipeline and marketed HIV portfolios of both companies, will be more sustainable and broader in scope than either of the existing companies. The new 
company will continue GSK’s and Pfizer’s 
commitments to improve access to HIV medicines for everyone. Not-for-profit pricing for HIV medicines will continue for those countries most in need, and the new company will continue to facilitate new voluntary licenses to diversify production and expand capacity in these markets. The new company will also conduct research and development activities specifically to address access to HIV medicines in developing countries. In particular, the new company will increase its research effort into treatments and formulations for children living with HIV and it will oversee a new fund to help prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV in the developing 
world, with a particular focus on Sub-
Saharan Africa. An integration steering committee, with representatives from  both companies, has been established  to prepare for the operation of the  new company upon the closing of  the transaction.
Pfizer Global Health Programs
Through our collection of philanthropic global health programs, we invest the full range of our resources—people, skills, expertise and funding—to improve global health. These investments, implemented in partnership with national governments, international agencies, nongovernmental organizations, multilateral organizations or academic institutions, address the 
following key objectives:
•			Improving	patient	access	to	medicines	
and health services 
•			Building	capacity	and	strengthening	
the knowledge of health care providers and the public health community so they can expand prevention and health delivery systems
Through these targeted strategies, we invest in effective and sustainable health care delivery and we empower our colleagues, strengthen our stakeholder relationships, and ultimately have  a positive impact on society and  our business. ImPRO vINg ACCESS
Pfizer is committed to improving patient access to medicines and health care services by:
•			Donating	medicines	and	making	them	
available	to	patients	in	need;
•			Providing	treatment	or	services	(e.g.,	
health	screenings,	surgeries);
•			Delivering	information	to	patients	about	
treatment	adherence;
•			Implementing	programs	that	increase	
access	to	prescription	medicine;
•			Directing	people	in	need	to	patient	
assistance services.
Product donation is an important facet of Pfizer’s access to medicine programs. In the U.S., Pfizer offers prescription assistance through Pfizer Helpful Answers
®—our family of programs to help 
people without prescription coverage save on many Pfizer medicines, no matter their age or income. People with limited income may even qualify to get their medicines for free. In the past five years (2004–2008), Pfizer Helpful Answers has helped over 5.1 million patients receive over 51 million Pfizer prescriptions, the equivalent of $4.1 
billion worth of free medicines and savings. 
In response to the recent economic 
downturn, Pfizer launched a new program 
called MAINT AIN™ (Medicines Assistance for Those Who Are in Need) to help eligible unemployed Americans and their families who have lost their health insurance maintain access to their Pfizer medicines for free. This program was initiated by Pfizer employees, and their donations will be matched by the Pfizer Foundation. maRk R OseNBeRG
ExECUTIVE  DIRECTOR , THE TASK  FORCE  FOR  GLOBAL  HEALTH The Neglected Tropical Diseases are 
coming to be neglected no more and the most extraordinary part of the story may just turn out to be the role of pharmaco-philanthropy. 
This story stands in stark contrast to the view my fellow medical 
students had of pharmaceutical companies 40 years ago  when these young doctors became the first class to return the black bags and stethoscopes that a pharmaceutical company offered. We could not imagine a day when the world’s largest pharmaceutical company, would commit to donate as much Zithromax as necessary to reach the global goal of eliminating blinding trachoma by 2020, as Pfizer did earlier this year. This  story represents a true paradigm shift—on many fronts—and it  is impossible to overstate its importance. Pfizer’s commitment  will help engage and mobilize governments and nongovernmental partners around the world and Pfizer’s pharmaco-philanthropy may be the single most important component in the battle against blinding trachoma.”sTakeh OLD eR CO mme NTaRy 
“aCC ess TO me DICIN es
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32In the developing world, Pfizer founded 
and continues to support the International 
Trachoma Initiative to address the suffering caused by blinding trachoma. Through this joint initiative with the T ask Force for Global Health, the World Health Organization, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Carter Center, Lions Clubs International, USAID and 
the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, 
Pfizer has donated more than 145 million treatments of the antibiotic Zithromax
® 
(azithromycin) for use in 18 countries. We have also supported the training of thousands of health care workers in trachoma treatment and surgery. This program has helped developing countries such as Morocco move toward the eradication of blinding trachoma as a public health problem. 
BuILDIN g CAPACITY
Pfizer works to expand the prevention of disease and improve health care delivery systems by: 
•		Working	with	providers	and	
communities to increase health care worker training and patient education on both disease prevention and treatment options
•		Strengthening	the	organizational	
capacity of health partners to support access to care, from disease prevention to diagnosis and treatment. Education is a critical part of health care. It can improve disease prevention and ensure timely and appropriate medical care. We believe that in order to improve health systems, we must strengthen the organizational capacity of institutions offering care and the broader public  health community. 
For example, the Global Health Fellows 
program seeks to build local health system capacity in underserved communities. In partnership with nongovernmental and multilateral organizations, Pfizer colleagues commit to assignments lasting up to six months to expand access 
to care, prevention and treatment for 
PUBLIC POLICy
Expanding Access and Improving Quality  
through Health Care Reform 
As a key player in the health care system, Pfizer has come to 
understand we have a role to play in improving health care access and delivery. Pfizer supports comprehensive health care reform that provides affordable health care coverage and improves quality of care. We believe that ensuring increased coverage and better care for everyone is a shared responsibility—of the private sector, the public sector and  of individuals.
Within the U.S., Pfizer has taken steps to address many 
of the problems preventing Americans from being their healthiest. Our approach is described in eight health care  reform principles that we believe will provide a solid foundation for achieving patient-centered health reform. These principles can be found on the Public Policy section  of our Web site.
Pfizer is actively engaged in the current efforts to reform 
the U.S. health care system, and shares common goals with the Obama administration’s efforts to change the health care system—improved access, more focus on prevention and wellness, and lower costs for patients. Our CEO, Jeff Kindler, has made U.S. health care reform one of his top personal priorities and speaks on the subject regularly to a wide variety of audiences. For instance, he recently participated in the White House Health Reform Summit along with members of Congress from both political parties, citizens from around the country, and stakeholders representing health care providers, 
business, labor unions, consumers, and health plans. He also 
co-authored an opinion piece with Andy Stern, President of the Service Employees International Union—the largest union in North America representing hospital, home care and nursing home workers—on the need for health care reform in the U.S. Jeff Kindler is also using his leadership position in the business community to try to seek consensus among large employers about key aspects critical to the reform efforts.
Pfizer is also involved in health care reform outside the U.S. 
In the United Kingdom, for instance, Pfizer has been a key participant in dialogues with the National Health Service and health departments of the U.K. to develop a price regulation scheme that improves patients’ access to medicines while promoting pharmaceutical industry innovation and competitiveness. In Ireland, Pfizer has launched a series 
of National Health Debates designed to engage leading 
commentators and encourage the general public to articulate perspectives and concerns on health care.
In Japan, Pfizer established the Pfizer Health Research 
Foundation in 1992 as a nonprofit organization with responsibility to support and develop the field of health research, including pharmacoeconomics and outcomes research in Japan. To promote health research in Japan, the foundation develops advanced research themes and subsidizes precedent studies in the health research field through interdisciplinary academic methodologies. To date, the foundation has sponsored 506 grants covering topics such as health care systems, health care policy, health economics, pharmacoeconomics, health care quality, health care service, patient satisfaction and developing health care resources. The fruits of the granted research are fed back to society with the intent of stimulating government policy.
In 2009 Pfizer and the Turkish Government signed a 
memorandum of understanding to support pharmaceutical partnerships in research and development in Turkey. The government committed to fostering an innovation friendly climate, enabling access to innovative therapies and building a strong intellectual property framework to support research.33 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilit ylooking f oRwARD
Access to medicines continues to be both a challenge 
and an opportunity for Pfizer. Historically, much of 
the conversation has focused on how the burden of 
providing access can be shared between pharmaceutical companies and governments. Companies have also struggled with how to balance meeting the global needs 
for access with the challenges and costs of research and 
development. Moving forward, Pfizer, in conjunction with stakeholders and partners, will attempt to reframe 
this debate by focusing less on the tension between 
philanthropic access and commercial success and more on creating a socially and commercially sustainable Global Access Strategy. 
We recognize that there will continue to be 
challenges around the prices of medicines and health care delivery, especially in the developing world. For 
many people, any price is cost-prohibitive, and we will 
need to continue to partner with our stakeholders to find ways to provide access to necessary medicines for those who may be left out of a commercial business model. 
We also believe that medicines are only one component 
of providing access to health, and we therefore remain committed to our programs to build capacity for health 
care delivery around the world.devastating diseases such as HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis and malaria. During their assignments, Fellows train and support their local counterparts, transferring skills and together creating sustainable local solutions. Since 2003, more than 200 Global Health Fellows have invested over 160,000 hours of service working with nongovernmental organizations in 39 
countries to deliver health care and health 
system support. We have recently piloted a program expansion to the U.S. and Eastern Europe out of recognition that needs exist in both the developing and the developed world. The program was recently recognized by the United States Corporation for National and Community Service for leadership and excellence in pro bono skills-based corporate volunteering.
Our Global Health Partnerships Program, 
funded by Pfizer and the Pfizer Foundation, is advancing cancer- and tobacco-control efforts by investing $47 million over four years (2007–2010) to support innovative regional and global partnerships in oncology and tobacco control reaching  
46 countries. The Pfizer Foundation 
provides technical assistance, capacity-building, and evaluation support to grantee partners while Pfizer country offices provide local resources and expertise. These partnerships will also serve as global models in improving cancer-related health outcomes. Pfizer is also evaluating program impact, including public education and efforts to address policy and advocacy, changes to patient behavior and attitudes toward smoking and smoking-related disease, increases in the number of patients screened for cancer, and reductions of cancer and smoking-related health problems. 
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/gLOBALhEALThwww.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 34aCC ess TO me DICIN es
PROgRAm PARTNERS  ImPACT ON SOCIETY  2009 PROgRAm gOAL
PfIzER hELPfuL ANSwERS®
(2004)
Pfizer Helpful Answers® is a family of 
assistance programs for the uninsured 
and underinsured who need help 
getting Pfizer medicines. These programs provide Pfizer medicines for free or at a savings to patients who qualify. Some programs also offer reimbursement support services for people with insurance. Programs that provide free Pfizer medicines include: Connection to Care,™ Sharing the Care,™ and the Pfizer Hospital Partnership Program.
INfECTIOuS DISEASES   
INSTITuTE (IDI) (2004)
Center of Excellence for prevention, 
treatment, training and research  in Uganda that strengthens regional capacity in HIV/AIDS, malaria  and tuberculosis 
DIfLuCAN  PARTNERS hIP  
PROgRAm (2000)
Partnerships with governments 
and NGOs in developing countries to donate Diflucan for two fungal opportunistic infections associated with HIV/AIDS and support training of health care providers in HIV/AIDS care
gLOBAL hEALTh fELLOwS (2003)Volunteer program where Pfizer sends 
approximately 50 employees a year on 3–6 month assignments to work with NGOs and governments around the world to help improve health care infrastructure for the underserved.
INTERNATIONAL  TRAC hOmA 
INITIATIvE (ITI) (1998)Program to eliminate trachoma, the 
world’s leading cause of preventable blindness, through the donation of 
Zithromax and an integrated public 
health strategy that includes training 
health care professionals, community health education, and water and sanitation improvements.PHA partners with numerous 
community groups and patient advocate groups to help spread the word about available help. Partners include: the National Association  of Hispanic Nurses, the National Urban League, the National Association of Community Health Centers, the Men’s Health Network 
and the Hispanic Federation 
Makerere University, the Academic 
Alliance and Accordia Global Health Foundation, the Ugandan Ministry  of Health and Mulago Hospital,  and the Infectious Diseases Society of America
IMA World Health, Axios International, 
IDA Foundation, governments  and NGOs
Partner NGOs include: USAID/PEPFAR, 
mothers2mothers, Health Volunteers Overseas, Family Health International, Population Services International,  the Columbia University Access Project, the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, IntraHealth and Project HOPE.
Founded by Pfizer and the Edna 
McConnell	Clark	Foundation;	recently partnered with the T ask Force	for	Global	Health;	additional	partners include governments, nongovernmental organizations, corporations, UNICEF, the Carter Center, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Lions Club, agencies of the United Nations and the WHO. In the past five years (2004–2008), 
Pfizer Helpful Answers has helped over 5.1 million patients receive over 51 million Pfizer prescriptions, the equivalent of $4.8 billion worth of free medicines and savings. 
Since 2004, nearly 4,000 health 
care workers from 27 countries have received training in various aspects  of the prevention and care of  HIV/AIDS and related infectious disease and indicate they train, on average, 20 additional health care workers per month. IDI provides ongoing care and treatment to approximately 9,000 HIV/AIDS patients, and conducts regular outreach to strengthen other providers in the region. More than 20 projects are currently underway in IDI’s research department, which works closely with Uganda’s Ministry of Health to improve national policy and practice. 
To date the partnership has provided 
over $840 million in medicine to more than 2,000 sites in 63 countries, with training and education of 20,000 health care professionals. Trained more than 20,000 health care professionals to help improve patient treatment and care.
To date over 200 Fellows have been 
selected to serve as physicians, epidemiologists, nurse educators, supply chain experts, IT specialists, and business consultants in  39 countries.
To date Pfizer, through ITI, has 
provided 145 million treatments of Zithromax
® to patients in 18 countries 
and trained thousands of health care workers, who, in turn have completed more than 400,000 surgeries to treat advanced cases of trachoma. In 2006, after six years of work, Morocco became the first country to complete the campaign for trachoma control and is working towards WHO certification of  disease elimination. Over the last  10 years, Pfizer has provided $1 billion of pharmaceutical and financial donations to ITI.Continue to improve access to Pfizer 
medicines by expanding Connection to Care
® and Pfizer Pfriends® into 
Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. These programs provide Pfizer medicines for free or at a savings to 
patients who qualify. 
Respond to the economic crisis by 
creating a new patient assistance 
program—Pfizer MAINT AIN.™ 
The Pfizer MAINT AIN Program 
helps eligible people in financial 
need continue to get their Pfizer 
medicines if they have recently 
become unemployed and do not have 
prescription coverage.
Build capacity of health systems in 
Africa for the delivery of sustainable, high-quality care and prevention 
of HIV/AIDS and related infectious 
diseases through training, research 
and advanced clinical services.
To provide treatment for two 
AIDS-related fungal infections—cryptococcal meningitis and esophageal candidiasis—through partnerships with governments and nongovernmental organizations in developing countries with a greater than 1 percent prevalence of HIV/AIDS.
Strengthen short- and long-term 
monitoring and evaluation of fellowship assignments, strengthen internal recruitment for senior level candidates, and create new partnership opportunities
To leverage resources and expertise, 
creating new partnerships to fight trachoma and other neglected tropical diseases;	build	on	ITI’s	success	in promoting the SAFE strategy, a comprehensive public health approach that combines treatment with prevention, involving sight-saving 
surgery, mass treatment with the 
Pfizer-donated antibiotic Zithromax
®, 
facial cleanliness, and environmental 
improvement to increase access to clean water and improved sanitation.Ove RvIew O f Pf IzeR’s INves TmeNTs IN h eaLTh35 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityPROgRAm PARTNERS  ImPACT ON SOCIETY  2009 PROgRAm gOAL
mOBILI zE AgAINST  mALARIA 
(2007)
A five-year, three-country initiative 
that engages and educates treatment providers and patients to improve prompt and effective treatment for malaria in Senegal, Ghana and Kenya.
gLOBAL  hEALT h PARTNERS hIPS 
(2007)
Four-year program to support 
innovative public health partnerships 
that will serve as global models in addressing emerging challenges in cancer control and tobacco control in 46 countries across five continents.
CONNECT hIv (2007)
Program designed to complement 
existing HIV prevention efforts and help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS by supporting integrated approaches that bring together prevention, access to care and treatment.Evaluation team:  
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, KEMRI-Wellcome Trust, Health Partners Ghana 
Implementation Partners:
Population Services International (PSI), Family Health International/Ghana Social Marketing Foundation 
(GSMF), IntraHealth International
Pfizer’s partners include: Action 
on Smoking and Health (ASH) Alianca de Controle do T abagismo 
(ACT)/Tobacco Control Alliance 
International, Akebono-Kai, American 
Cancer Society, Cause Marketing Fundraiser of South Africa, China Tobacco Control Association, Comprehensive Cancer Center at Freiburg University Medical Center, Korean National Council of Women, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), George Washington University Cancer Center, Good Dog Foundation, Heart & Stroke Foundation of Ontario, Health Policy Institute Japan, Health Promotional Foundation, Hellenic Respiratory Society, Hungarian Academy of T eaching Family Physicians, International Union Against Cancer (UICC), Irish Cancer Society, Japan Dental-Medical Association for Tobacco Council, Mexican Council on Tobacco, Philippine Business for Social Progress, QUIT UK/European Network of Quitlines, SAMBA, Shanghai Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, The New Hope in Health Foundation, The Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care and Prevention and The Veronesi Foundation.
Evaluation team: Academy for 
Educational Development, Johns Hopkins University. 
Twenty grantee partners: Black 
Coalition on AIDS, STOP AIDS Project, AIDS Interfaith Residential Services, Latino Commission on AIDS, BEBASHI, St. Hope Foundation, Northeast Florida AIDS Network (NFAN), New York Harm Reduction Educators, Prevention Point Philadelphia, California Prevention and Education Project (CAL-PEP), Foothill AIDS Project, Positive Impact, AIDS Care Services (ACS), Piedmont Health Care Consortium, Hyacinth AIDS Foundation, Philadelphia FIGHT, Shanti Project, Chicago House and Social Service Agency, T est Positive Aware Network, The Family CenterIn Ghana, conducting training 
sessions for Licensed Chemical Sellers enabling more than 660 chemical sellers in 13 districts to provide better malaria education to over 20,000 people, dispense medicines according to national protocol, refer complicated malaria cases and pregnant women to nearby health centers. 
To date, the Global Health 
Partnerships program has supported 29 grantees in 46 countries across 
five continents addressing emerging 
challenges in cancer and tobacco 
control. Our cancer control grantees are developing national networks to build the standard of care in eight countries, providing screening of thousands of persons for early detection of cancer, expanding programs to help patients navigate through complicated systems of cancer care, and providing training to increase the organizational capacity of more than 20 NGOs in Asia, Latin America and North Africa. Our tobacco grantees are helping to build networks and alliances for tobacco control in nine countries, educating thousands of physicians, encouraging thousands of smokers to quit, working to protect thousands of non smokers from secondhand smoke, and increasing awareness about the harm of tobacco use among tens of thousands of people.
To date, over 6,000 individuals at 
high risk for contracting HIV/AIDS have been reached with prevention messaging	and	educational	programs;	573 HIV-positive individuals have learned how to prevent transmission to	their	partners;	262	HIV-positive	individuals were guided through the process	of	accessing	high	quality	care;	and over 300 HIV-positive individuals are improving their adherence to treatment. Funded programs have focused primarily on communities of color, those in economic need, recently incarcerated individuals, marginalized populations, and those in unstable employment and/or housing situations.Through grants, technical assistance, 
evaluation support, and networking resources, Pfizer partners with leading NGOs to find promising interventions that improve utilization and effectiveness of malaria treatment.
Strengthen the evaluation capacity 
of grantees to compile a global evaluation framework around tobacco 
control and cancer control
Share promising models and 
learnings with grantee partners and HIV/AIDS experts to demonstrate the effectiveness of integrated approaches36pAtient  sAfe t y 37 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y
hIG hLIGhTs
launched the Pfizer medicine Safety 
education w eb site (www.pfizer.
com/medicinesafety), which works to bridge the gap in knowledge about how medicine safety is determined, monitored, and communicated to  health care professionals, patients  and journalists. 
Continued to rigorously conduct reviews 
of all existing nonclinical safety data prior to testing a drug candidate for the first time in a human clinical trial.
Provided anti-counterfeiting training to 
enforcement agencies and continue to test products free of charge to determine their authenticity. Since the program’s inception in 1998, training for authorities has been conducted in 79 countries.Patient safety is a paramount concern for Pfizer from the 
moment a new compound is discovered, and for as long 
as a medicine is prescribed. It is our ethical and regulatory 
responsibility to monitor the safety of our medicines everywhere they are marketed. Once a drug compound is approved, we continue to monitor its safety and work 
with governments and others to secure the supply chain 
and prevent counterfeiting. 
We are committed to broadening safety 
awareness and therefore strive to improve patient safety communications. We are also exploring mechanisms to improve communications between Pfizer and patients and health care professionals, when adverse effects are reported, so that we can aggregate data and respond appropriately. Pfizer employs more than 
2,000 medicine safety specialists including 
research scientists, physicians, nurses, pharmacists, epidemiologists and others. These colleagues work with regulatory authorities to understand, as precisely as possible, the risks and benefits of our medicines before and after they are cleared by regulatory authorities. Our safety processes include collecting adverse event reports, conducting observational studies, and funding independent safety studies that are conducted by third-party investigators.
Communicating Patient  
Safety Information
We encourage patients and caregivers 
to contact us or their doctors if someone has experienced any adverse effect that might be related to one of our medicines. Information about how to contact Pfizer is posted on our Web site and included in our medicine packaging. 
Our new online tool, the Medicine 
Safety Education Web site (www.pfizer.
com/medicinesafety), is designed to help 
U.S. health care providers, public health professionals, patients and caregivers learn more about medicine safety. It contains valuable information about how to report an adverse effect and how to contact both Pfizer and the Food and Drug Administration. Specific sections are also tailored for different audiences. For health care professionals, the site provides information on understanding risk and working as partners with patients. For patients and caregivers, it provides tips  for understanding the risks and benefits  of medicines and for protecting their  own safety.
Adverse Event Reporting
Every medicine, even commonly used medications such as aspirin, carries the risk of adverse effects. Pfizer is committed to examining reported adverse incidents to identify and react appropriately to any safety concerns with our medicines. 
To help speed the identification of 
potential safety concerns, Pfizer is a collaborator with Brigham and Women’s 
Hospital, a teaching hospital of Harvard 
Medical School, in a study to improve digital reporting of adverse events. Using patient electronic medical records, doctors can report adverse events by indicating when patients have been taken off drugs, answer a few questions and submit the adverse event report. A third-party public/private liaison organization then sends these notifications to the FDA and to the pharmaceutical company. We hope that this study will help doctors more quickly and conveniently report any suspected adverse events, and help us and those who regulate us improve our ability to react more quickly and appropriately when safety concerns arise. 
The study, which stopped collecting 
data in June 2009, demonstrated that it’s possible to reduce the burden of reporting for doctors using electronic health records to the point where they will report certain types of adverse events at the point of care. This will mean companies like Pfizer, regulators and doctors will have the benefit of meaningful information about experiences with medicines across patient populations more quickly than is possible using existing paper-based systems.PaTIeNT safe Ty
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38Safety in R&D
Throughout a medicine’s life cycle there are 
a number of risk and benefit assessments that take place. This work is carried out by a joint drug safety and clinical initiative of Pfizer Drug Safety Research & Development (DSRD), which has developed a consensus recommendation on the safety of  
clinical trials that will be first carried out  
in human subjects.
Post-Marketing Studies
Although Pfizer’s clinical trials are always designed to uncover potential side effects and risks of medicines before they are introduced to the public, additional risks as well as benefits can become apparent after our drugs have been approved and are consumed by broader and larger populations. We acknowledge that our responsibility for the safety of 
our medicines does not end when they 
are approved, and we have committed substantial resources to information about the performance of our medicines after they have been publicly released. We are also committed to providing transparency about our post-marketing activities  and continue to provide user-friendly,  up-to-date information on our studies through our Web site. 
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/RESEARChCounterfeiting & Distribution 
Pfizer has taken a leadership position among pharmaceutical companies with its commitment to protect consumers of our medicines from the dangers posed by counterfeits. Pharmaceutical counterfeiting is on the rise globally—the WHO estimates that while less than 1 percent of medicines in developed countries are counterfeit this increases to between 10 and 30 percent in 
developing countries. This risks the health 
of millions of patients who take for granted that their prescription medicines are both safe and effective. Counterfeit medicines often lack the active pharmaceutical ingredient of the authentic product, depriving patients of the expected therapeutic benefit. Worse yet, counterfeit medicines may include toxic materials.
Although the U.S. pharmaceutical 
distribution system is among the safest in the world, incidents of counterfeiting continue to increase. Of the approximately 45 million counterfeit tablets seized  by authorities since 2004, 11.1 million were seized in 2008 alone, nearly 29 percent over 2007. Pfizer has established business practices 
to secure the distribution system and has increased cooperation with law enforcement agencies to prosecute counterfeiters and promote public policies that reduce counterfeiting. For example, we provide training to enforcement agencies and test products free of charge to determine their authenticity. Since the 
program’s inception in 2008, training 
for authorities has been conducted in 79 countries. We have also made a considerable investment in Radio Frequency Identification Devices and other technologies to deter and detect counterfeiting operations. We will continue to protect the integrity of our products by partnering with wholesalers, pharmacists, regulators and law enforcement agencies around the world to advocate for more public investment in enforcement, and for stronger penalties for those found guilty  of counterfeiting medicines.
COUNT eRfeIT Pha RmaCeUTIC aLs
As of June 2009, counterfeit products have been confirmed in at least 85 countries.
  Countries without confirmed counterfeit products 
  Countries with confirmed counterfeit products39 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilitylooking f oRwARD
Patient safety concerns will continue to be a priority for 
Pfizer. New drugs hold the promise of improving patients’ 
lives and promoting healthy lifestyles. We seek to increase 
partnerships with government and enforcement agencies overseas to address safety concerns in the supply chain. We will also remain committed to transparency on  
safety issues and post-marketing research. As we improve  
our ability to identify and track adverse events, we  
will also need to improve our ability to communicate 
these concerns responsibly to patients and health  
care providers.DR. PaNOs TsINTIs
MEDICAL DIRECTOR, CHOICE PHARMAI consider Pfizer to be the global 
pharmaceutical industry leader  
in scientific excellence and corporate responsibility. 
The company gives top priority to safe use of medicines and has 
integrated risk management concepts throughout the product life cycle. Having sought strategic advice from independent experts, Pfizer senior management proactively introduced a sound governance system throughout the organization. There  are early indicators that this system is enabling Pfizer to make robust decisions with a focus on health and well-being of patients. Pfizer has taken early and effective actions, whenever needed, in order to minimize risks to patients. The company is now well placed to evaluate for positive impact of its actions and safety initiatives on public and individual health metrics. Pfizer has led the provision of general safety and risk management information directly to the public. They now plan to engage stakeholders  more closely in the life cycle management of Pfizer medicines: another innovative first-in-industry initiative from Pfizer that should be highly commended.”sTakeh OLD eR CO mme NTaRy 
“40sAles &  
mAR ke ting 41 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityhIG hLIGhTs
Began disclosing all funding in the 
U.S. for medical education grants and other support to medical and patient organizations in may 2008. 
Committed to new Phrma Code 
on Interactions with Health Care Professionals (HCP), in January 2009, 
reinforcing highest ethical standards 
in interactions with health care professionals.
Committed to updated Phrma Guiding 
Principles on direct to Consumer (d TC)
advertising about Prescription medicines, effective march 2009, reflecting strengthened commitment to d TC 
communications that best serve the needs of patients, consumers and the health care community.Pfizer is committed to responsibly promoting our products. 
We believe that it is important to educate patients and 
providers about new health care treatments. However, we 
also acknowledge stakeholders’ concerns that sales and marketing practices need to provide accurate information, and that physicians who prescribe our products not be 
influenced by anything other than the merits and value of 
the medicine being marketed. Pfizer follows an approach to sales and marketing that starts with integrity in our 
business practices, transparency in our reporting about 
these practices, and compassion for those who find it difficult to afford our medicines.
Ethical Marketing 
We believe that ethical conduct begins  
by providing employees the guidelines  along with tools to understand them, and how they apply to the work that we do.  At Pfizer, our sales and marketing employees must follow a number of guidelines, all of which are available on  the Responsibility section of www.pfizer.com. All sales employees receive training 
on health care ethics as well as product 
and disease knowledge. The primary objective of our sales force is to provide accurate medical and product information so that physicians can make informed treatment decisions. Therefore, all members of the sales force are expected to know the medical foundation of diseases and treatments, as well as the latest research findings on Pfizer and competitors’ products. Specific health care law compliance, including effective documentation, is also a major part of training for sales employees around the world. All Pfizer colleagues in sales, marketing and management are required to complete ethics training and pass a test 
on ethics and compliance every year.
The new PhRMA HCP Code (www.
phrma.org/code_on_interactions_with_
health care_professionals) adds an additional level of oversight rigor for sales and marketing ethics in the U.S. Companies now have the opportunity to complete an annual certification signed 
by the CEO and the CCO to announce 
support of the Code and to confirm that they have processes and procedures in place to assure compliance. The PhRMA DTC Guiding Principles (www.phrma.org/dtc) have a similar pledge from members to abide by the Principles.
We will continue to evaluate 
opportunities to monitor our performance against the highest standards and submit to periodic third-party audits to ensure that we are meeting our goals.
Interactions with  
Health Care Professionals
At Pfizer, we believe that interactions 
with health care professionals should be founded on three principles:
1  PrIma Cy OF THe Heal TH Care 
PrOFeSSIONal/Pa TIeNT rela TIONSHIP  
We recognize that the primary duty of practicing health care professionals is to their patients. Therefore, our relationships with health care professionals must support, and be consistent with, the professional and fiduciary responsibilities health care professionals have to their patients. 
Fundamentally, our interactions with 
health care professionals must advance patient care and support the ethical and compassionate practice of medicine.2  COrPOra Te reSPONSIBIlITy 
Facilitating access to quality health care is a fundamental responsibility of governments, but to succeed, all stakeholders (including industry, health care professionals and patients) must work together. We are committed to doing our part—by developing new medicines designed to prevent, treat or cure disease, by working with other 
stakeholders to make medicines and 
health care information available to patients and health care professionals, and by supporting the creation and implementation of sustainable health care solutions. 
3  TraNSP areNCy 
We recognize that our interactions with health care professionals can give rise to apparent or actual conflicts of interest. We support the disclosure of financial and other interests and relationships that may create apparent or perceived conflicts of interest in research, education or clinical practice. In addition, in our dealings with health care professionals 
employed by, or affiliated with, 
government or regulatory authorities, care will be taken to ensure that they comply with all applicable laws. 
In 2006, we adopted Pfizer’s Global Policy on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals  
which incorporates common legal and ethical standards from many of Pfizer’s 
major markets, including the U.S. (Pfizer 
White Guide, PhRMA Code) and around the world (EFPIA Code on Promotion of Medicines, IFPMA Code of Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices) and applies them to our operations in 180 countries. saLes & ma RkeTING
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 42At Pfizer, clear and candid relationships with health care 
professionals are of paramount importance to our business. In furtherance of this objective, in 2009, we announced plans to make publicly available our compensation of U.S. health care professionals for consulting, speaking engagements and clinical trials. The disclosure will include payments made to practicing U.S. physicians and other health care providers, as well as principal investigators, major academic institutions and research sites for clinical research. This makes Pfizer the first 
biopharmaceutical company to commit to reporting payments 
for conducting Phase I–IV clinical trials in addition to disclosing payments for speaking and consulting. Pfizer is committing to share this information in order to provide greater clarity and understanding of the valuable scientific innovations and improved patient care that result from these collaborations with health care professionals.
These kinds of collaborations are an essential part of 
medical progress and without them we would not be able to continue delivering the medical innovations that the global health community has come to expect. 
In 2008, we collaborated with almost 8,000 clinical 
investigators to conduct more than 280 studies to better understand how our medicines can be safely and effectively used to the benefit of patients. Pfizer makes payments 
to investigators and research institutions to compensate 
them for the work done on the company’s behalf. As part of this initiative, we will ensure that payments are posted in an accurate, clear and consistent manner that clearly demonstrates the recipient name or institution, the payment made and the service provided.
Pfizer’s plans reflect the spirit of recent proposed 
legislation regarding payments to physicians in that it includes payments to practicing physicians and other health care providers as well as to principal investigators and institutions for Phase I–IV clinical trials sponsored by Pfizer. 
We plan to publish our first annual online update on  
www.pfizer.com in early 2010. The report will include payments made from July 1, 2009, going forward. Parameters under consideration include reporting payments to recipients whose aggregate amount exceeds $500 in a calendar year, including the value of non-monetary items, such as meals, that exceed $25 in value.
Specifically, this includes disclosing all payments to all 
practicing health care providers who can prescribe medicines, major institutions for ongoing clinical trials, and principal investigators and other entities for Phase I–IV clinical trials sponsored by Pfizer beginning after July 1, 2009.
The payments include those for clinical development and 
commercial consulting, promotional speaking, Phase I–IV clinical trials, investigator-initiated research and meals and 
other non-monetary items.PUBLIC POLICy
Disclosing Payments to  
Health Care ProfessionalsPROmOTIONAL ACTI vITIES
Pfizer is committed to accuracy and 
transparency in the promotion of medicines to health care professionals. By providing substantiated information about the usage, safety, efficacy and other aspects of the clinical profile of our medicines, Pfizer helps health care professionals use our products safely and effectively. We train our 
sales representatives to provide not 
only information on the benefits of our medicines, but also information on when our products should not be used, what side effects or adverse reactions have been described, and other warnings or precautions about their use.
Samples of Pfizer medicines are termed 
“starters” and provided to health care professionals in accordance with local laws so that patients and their health care professionals can become familiar with the medicine. Pfizer maintains strict guidelines on the use of starters, including 
bans on using starters to solicit or reward prescribing practices, providing starters for health care professionals’ personal use, or selling, purchasing or trading starters. All Pfizer businesses providing starters track and maintain records on all samples provided.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/RESPONSIBILITY
Direct to Consumer Advertising 
Pfizer is committed to responsibly promoting our products. We believe that it is important to educate patients and providers about new health care treatments. However, we also acknowledge stakeholders’ concerns that sales and marketing practices need to provide accurate information and that physicians who prescribe our products not be influenced by anything other than the merits and value of the medicine being marketed. Pfizer follows an approach to sales and marketing that starts with integrity in our business practices, transparency in our reporting about these 
practices, and compassion and support  
for those who find it difficult to afford  our medicines.
We believe that responsible consumer 
advertising has significant and proven value to help consumers identify disease conditions and engage in more informed conversations with their health care providers. These conversations can result in life-changing diagnoses and treatment decisions. Pfizer supports the continuing ability to provide information to consumers about medicines, but we acknowledge that some stakeholders have concerns about consumer advertising of prescription medicines.43 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilitylooking f oRwARD
As the science of medicine continues to advance, Pfizer 
will maintain our dedication to responsibly educating 
physicians and patients about innovations in health care 
and how to use our portfolio of prescription medicines safely and effectively. Over the next two years, we will build upon our past disclosure efforts by beginning to 
disclose payments to individual health care providers for 
their work with us.
As Pfizer becomes an increasingly global company, 
we will also continue to examine, evaluate and, where appropriate, revise our sales and marketing policies to ensure that our practices in emerging markets meet the same high standards for transparency and accuracy we 
have in more mature markets. 
Also, we recognize that health care reform measures 
in the U.S. and around the world may impact the current standard for relationships between patients and 
physicians. We will monitor the impact of changes to health care systems and adjust our sales and marketing policies accordingly to ensure that principles are upheld.Pfizer is dedicated to ensuring that 
consumer communications are accurate, 
evidence-based, reflect an appropriate balance of risk/benefit information, and are consistent with FDA labeling. We continue to evolve our approach to DTC advertising in consultation with stakeholders. We have reaffirmed our commitment to adhere to and 
exceed industry standards as outlined 
by the PhRMA Guiding Principles on Direct-to-Consumer Advertising About Prescription Medicines. Some highlights of our approach include more extensive, systematic engagement with health care professionals to get their feedback on new campaigns early in our development process. We are also committed to ensuring greater clarity in our advertising regarding the presentation of health care professionals as representatives. In addition, our CEO and Chief Compliance Officer sign an annual certification pledge to uphold the PhRMA Principles. We voluntarily submit our new TV advertising to the FDA for their review 
prior to airing and educate physicians 
about a new product for at least six months after product approval and before introducing branded broadcast and print advertisements so that physicians are equipped with accurate information to discuss medicines with patients.
These changes are a natural 
progression of Pfizer’s commitment to make our consumer communications more effective in motivating patients to talk with health care professionals and as part of our overall commitment to provide the right information to stakeholders. We will continue to seek ways to provide health care information to patients in meaningful ways and be responsive to all stakeholders. 44enViRonment, 
heAlth  
AnD sAfety45 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityhIG hLIGhTs
attained three of our four public goals to 
reduce atmospheric emissions before or 
within the goal period.
reduced overall illness and injury rates 
globally, including marked improvements 
in U.S. fleet safety performance.
Certified eHS management systems 
(ISO 14001, OHS aS 18001) maintained 
at 70 percent of Pfizer’s manufacturing facilities and 100 percent of our major r&d sites.
recognized by US eP a Climate leaders 
for attainment of our first generation  
greenhouse gas goal and our commitment for a second generation goal.
Named by the Carbon disclosure Project 
(CdP) as one of the top companies for our commitment to and disclosure of climate change information for the second consecutive year.While the criticality of issues such as access to medicines 
has typically predominated in the pharmaceutical and 
health care sector, responsible environmental, health 
and safety (EHS) practices have increasingly sparked the interest of stakeholders. We recognize that advancing good health and maintaining safety extends through the 
discovery, development, and distribution of medicines, 
to preserving natural resources and creating a healthy environment and workplace.
Pfizer has a long-standing commitment 
to environment, health and safety performance. We are proud of our environmental programs and our many achievements over the years. In the spirit of continuous improvement, we are also pursuing a more strategic and integrated approach to our environmental initiatives that will provide the foundation for a more 
environmentally sustainable model. 
We continue participation in 
organizations around the world to better 
understand significant environment, health and safety issues, enabling Pfizer and other companies to work toward viable and sustainable solutions such as sharing best practices in energy efficiencies. Pfizer engages local stakeholders and our colleagues, and partners with government, non-governmental organizations, industry and academia through awareness programs, technology transfer and sharing best practices worldwide.gREENIN g OuR fLEET —LOCAL  ACTION 
fOR gLOBAL O PERATIONS
Operations associated with our fleet accounted for 12 percent of our total carbon footprint last year. Beginning in 2007 and continuing today, Pfizer is implementing projects to reduce the impact of our nearly 32,000 automobiles. So far, we have identified the greatest potential to immediately reduce Pfizer’s fleet footprint in selecting the appropriate 
vehicle and engine size commensurate 
with intended purpose and use.
Resource Conservation and 
Waste Minimization
Pfizer is committed to advancing good 
health in the communities in which we operate. Our global environment, health and safety management program is centered on minimizing the potential impacts of our operations as we contribute to sustainability by reducing our emissions to the air and water, minimizing the waste we produce, and improving our methods 
of recycling, reuse and recovery.
ABATIN g OuR Em ISSIONS
To help protect the Earth’s ozone layer, 
we are committed to controlling and, wherever possible, eliminating the release of harmful compounds, including ozone depleting compounds (ODCs) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from our operations. In both cases, Pfizer set separate public goals, and has realized significant emissions reductions. 
COmPLIANCE
Unfortunately, despite our best efforts to meet and exceed industry standards, we have experienced incidents where we have Climate Change
At Pfizer, we recognize that climate 
change, and its potential impact on global health, is one of the most serious environmental challenges facing society today. We are committed to seizing opportunities throughout our business to lessen our impact and have set ambitious goals to drive our activities. These goals and our performance are highlighted in 
the performance overview at the end of 
this section. 
ENER gY Eff ICIENCIES
Pfizer has made substantial efforts to reduce our carbon and energy footprint through global conservation and energy efficiency efforts, and consolidation of certain operations. A wide range of projects, such as equipment retrofits, combined heat and power systems, and renewable energy installations contributed to significant emissions avoidance. 
Pfizer also has a public goal to obtain  
35 percent of our electricity from clean energy sources by 2010, an aggressive goal in this changing economic landscape. Although we have made excellent progress, our clean energy goal has been challenging to attain. The current shortfall is due to a number of factors including closure of some plants with cogeneration capacity and the financial viability of current clean energy technologies. Although Pfizer will not fully achieve our goal to have 35 percent of our electricity usage come from clean energy sources  by 2010, we remain committed to the  implementation of clean energy technologies where it makes sound 
environmental and business sense.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/ENvIRONmENTeNvIRON meNT, hea LTh aND safe Ty
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 46failed to comply with regulation. In 2008 
Pfizer paid a civil penalty of $975,000 to settle allegations by the U.S. EPA that our former Groton manufacturing facility violated certain Hazardous Air Pollutant regulations (leak detection and repair requirements) between 2002 and  2005. When initially notified in 2006,  Pfizer acted promptly to assure the 
facility’s compliance. 
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/ENvIRONmENT
REmEDIATIN g ENvIRONmENTAL  
LIABILITIES
Contamination of soil and groundwater 
at industrial sites can pose risks to the environment as well as the health and safety of those working at the sites and living in the surrounding communities. As we contribute to a more sustainable future, Pfizer works to prevent such contamination by reducing overall waste footprint and through our robust due diligence process 
for evaluating potential liabilities resultant 
from transactional activities. When contamination is found, we mitigate any immediate risk, assess the potential impact and deploy remediation efforts aligned with areas of concern. 
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/ENvIRONmENT
uNDERSTANDINg wATER  
The availability of potable water is one  of the most important global health  issues of our time—and one that may  be further exacerbated in coming years by our changing climate. There is also growing consensus that this emerging issue may become a crisis as sustainable access to water is challenged, presenting risks not only to individuals but also to  
the private sector.
While Pfizer’s use of water in our 
research centers and manufacturing 
facilities is relatively small compared to some other industries, responsible management of water is an important element of our global EHS program. We work to protect this resource by implementing standards that require 
facilities worldwide to quantify water use, prioritize water conservation measures, and support community efforts during drought conditions.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/ENvIRONmENT
Product Stewardship
Environmental responsibility entails the full life-cycle analysis of our products, extending beyond traditional producer responsibility. As the innovator of numerous novel compounds, Pfizer seeks to understand and ensure effective management of the health, safety and environmental risks during the discovery, development, manufacture, use and 
disposal of our products. 
PhARmACE uTICALS IN T hE 
ENv IRON mENT
Trace amounts of pharmaceuticals and 
other organic chemicals have been detected in the aquatic environment. Stakeholders are concerned that the presence of trace amounts of medicines, known as Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PIE), could have an effect on the aquatic environment and also on human health.
Pfizer recognizes our stakeholders’ 
concerns and has taken action. For many years, Pfizer facilities have worked to reduce releases of products and other materials to the environment and have conducted risk assessments to ensure these releases do not have an adverse impact on public health or the environment. We have also participated for several years in efforts led by pharmaceutical industry groups to better understand PIE and the associated risks. Through these collaborations, we have advanced the science, encouraged debate, and shared our knowledge with regulators, policy makers, and the public through Web sites like SMARxT Disposal. However, we must do more to address 
stakeholder concern. Pfizer adheres to 
principles of responsible environmental stewardship and we have increased our commitments and stepped up initiatives to tackle the complex issues associated with PIE.
Our strategies include:•		Continuing	to	engage	and	collaborate	
with the scientific community, policy makers, regulatory agencies, patient groups and nongovernmental organizations aggressively advancing the body of knowledge related to  PIE;	and	
•		Partnering	with	other	pharmaceutical	
companies and government agencies to further explore unused medicine disposal options, participating in product take-back programs in countries that have initiated them. 
Green Chemistry
Our Green Chemistry Program seeks to integrate EHS considerations throughout the research, discovery, development and manufacture of our products.
Green Chemistry is becoming intrinsic 
to the way all Pfizer scientists and engineers perform their work—it is about advancing scientific innovation, which lies at the heart of our strength as a company, to 
reduce our environmental footprint. Last 
year, notable projects embracing Green Chemistry principles included:
•		“Naturalizing”	Lyrica
®—taking 
advantage of nature’s own chemical 
catalysts (enzymes) through biocatalysis. The enzymatic synthesis of pregabalin will save more than 200,000 metric tons of chemical waste between 2007 and 2020.
•		“Greening”	Lipitor
®—manufacturing 
atorvastatin with a new biocatalysis 
process that realizes significant energy savings by changing the temperature at which a reaction is performed.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/ENvIRONmENT
1
DeveLOPmeNT  2
maTeRIaL  
PRODUCTION3
maTeRIaL  
PROCessING4
PRODUCT  
faBRICa TION5
DIsTRIBUTION  6
DeLIveR y & 
TRaNsa CTION7
CON sUmeR  
Use8
eND Of LIfe  
haNDLINGPRODUCT D esIGN47 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilit yWorkplace Responsibility
Pfizer colleagues worldwide remain our 
most valuable asset and the foundation of our success. Our priority is to provide a safe and healthy work environment for every Pfizer colleague. We have implemented a company-wide set of policies, standards and programs, combined with site-level management systems and initiatives tailored to the particular safety issues  
and needs at each location and business 
line function. 
We are committed to:
•		Significantly	improving	our	health	and	
safety	performance;
•		Maintaining	effective	management	of	
inherently	high-risk	operations;	and	
•		Ensuring	the	health	and	wellness	
of colleagues through careful management of workplace exposure. 
REDuCINg INJuRIES AND Su STAININ g  
A Cu LTuRE O f SAfETY
Overall, Pfizer has a solid health record  and good safety performance. However, we have room for improvement with respect to our lost-time and total injury and illness rates. 
Late in 2007, we began making 
significant progress in collecting additional metrics to identify areas to improve safety performance and to inform us of priorities. 
In early 2008, we set aggressive internal 
goals and targets and have begun realizing improved performance.
SAfEguARDIN g Ou R fIELD fORCE AND  
ThOSE w hO Sh ARE T hE ROAD
Driver safety is an area identified as a significant risk and a high priority for improvement. Motor vehicle accidents represent the greatest risk to our sales force and regrettably, in 2007 Pfizer lost two colleagues who were fatally injured in vehicle-related accidents, underscoring the need to improve safety.
A Global Fleet Safety Standard is 
being implemented, which includes focus on increasing driver safety awareness, conducting mandatory motor vehicle record reviews, and acting on colleague behaviors that compromise driver safety. In 2008, the U.S. Fleet Safety program has shown a 21 percent reduction in motor vehicle accidents.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/ENvIRONmENTlooking f oRwARD
Pfizer’s environment, health and safety programs are an 
integral part of our work to build a healthier world. We 
are eager to ensure our EHS programs help build a more 
sustainable future, ensuring the health and safety of our colleagues and protecting the environment. We recently launched a process to develop a new Environmental 
Sustainability roadmap that will help us identify priority 
strategies for the environmental issues that are most important to our stakeholders and to our business.aNDRea mOffa T
SENIOR DIRECTOR OF CORPORATE PROGRAM, CERESThere is an urgent need to move 
toward a sustainable global economy and Pfizer, as one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world, has a unique role to play in driving this change. 
Pfizer should accelerate its efforts to reduce its impacts, from 
climate change to water to toxins as this ultimately affects  the people that are at the core of Pfizer’s business. Pfizer should build upon its existing carbon reduction commitments and demonstrate leadership by actively supporting national and  global climate policy.
Energy and water go hand-in-hand. One of the most disruptive 
results of climate change will be water scarcity and declining water quality, the impacts of which will be felt most by vulnerable populations of emerging economies. There is nothing more  
critical to good health than access to clean water and Pfizer has  an opportunity to take the lead by developing a comprehensive water strategy. This will help the company to first understand  its water footprint and then to set goals to minimize impacts and to prepare for potential business risks.”sTakeh OLD eR CO mme NTaRy 
“www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 48eNvIRON meNT, hea LTh aND safe Ty
Environmental data is baseline adjusted in accordance with the WRI Protocol for Reporting 
GHGs. Facility closures are included in the data while those divested are not. Injury and illness data does not follow WRI—it is rate-based and therefore not baseline adjusted.
Data scope is directed by the EHS Guidelines. With the exception of some of our offices, the 
global population of sites includes manufacturing, R&D, commercial and logistics centers.
EHS performance data does not include our supply chain/outsourced manufacturing 
operations.2. CLEAN ENERg Y 
2008 2010
(est)
Total Clean
17%Total Clean
21%Other Clean 
11%
Hydro
4%
Cogen
2%
Conventional
& Nuclear83%Shortfall
~21%
Clean energy
~14%ABSOLUTE GHS EMISSIONS (TCO2EQ)–THOUSANDS1. ghg EmISSIONS (ABSOL uTE)
SECOND gENERATION gOAL
3,000
2,5002,0001,5001,000
500
0
2005       2006        2007       2008   Direct (fleet)
   Direct (onsite combustion)
   Indirect  
(purchased electricity)50%35%12%Base y ear 
2nd GHG Goal
KG R-11 EQUIVALENTS 4. Oz ONE DEPLETION POTENTIAL (ODP) KG THOUSANDS 3. vOLATILE ORgANIC COmPOuNDS (v OCS)
4,000
3,5003,0002,5002,0001,5001,000
500
0
2005    2006       2007            2008   Total VOC Emissions
  Deep Well Injection
  Loss to Air-Water-Land3,000
2,5002,0001,5001,000
500
0  Total ODP
  Primary Units
  HCFC Units
  Production
2005 2006 2007 2008
350
300250200150100
50
0
2005    2006       2007            2008   Generated
  Recycling
  Footprint KG MILLIONS 5. TOTAL w ASTE—f OOTPRINT & RECYCLINg MILLION M3
80
70605040302010
0
  Total Water Used
  Non-Contact  
 Cooling Water
  Water Consumed
2005    2006       2007            2008 6. w ATER f OOTPRINT
CASES PER 100 COLLEAGUES 8. LOST-TImE INJuRY/ILLNESS RATES (LTIR)
0.7
0.60.50.40.30.20.1
02008 Industry
Average=0.47
0.53 0.5 0.61 0.5
2005        2006        2007       2008CASES PER 100 COLLEAGUES 7. TOTAL INJuRY/ILLNESS RATES (TIR)
2008 Industry
Average=0.921.8
1.61.41.2
1
.0.8
0.60.40.2
0
1.62 1.3 1.41 0.92
2005        2006        2007       200849 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilitykey Pe RfORmaNCe INDIC aTOR s (2005–2008)
OzONE  DEPLETIN g COmPOuNDS 
(ODC) PhASE-OuT2007 Public goal to phase-out Class 1 
ODCs in large heating, ventilation,  
air conditioning and industrial process 
equipment2007 3 sites did not meet phase-out 
2008  2 sites remain with Class 1 ODCs 
(representing <5% of applicable units)Phase-out of primary units complete 
with the exception of two sites—
waivers were approved based on 
production schedule and unit  replacement costs.
INJuRY & ILLNESS  
PERf ORmANCEBASELINE ExPECTATION   
People are not injured and do not sus-
tain ill health as a result of their work.
2007–2010  Aggressive internal goal  
to reduce injury and illness rates by 40% from baseline year 20062007  1 fatality Fatally injured following an off-site 
NYC steam pipe explosionCOmPLIANCE BASELINE ExPECTATION   
100% compliance, zero penalties2008  Groton fine $975K
NOTE Pfizer publicly reports penalties 
paid >$100KSettlement for U.S. EPA allegations (former manufacturing facility LDAR 2002–05).
CLImATE ChANgE  
1ST gENERATION gOAL ghg2000–07  Public goal to reduce GHG 
emissions 35% on relative basis2007  Achieved goal 43%
2007–08  Additional 5 20%Attributed to energy efficiency  
projects, facility closures.N/A
CLImATE ChANgE  
2ND gENERATION gOAL ghg  
GRAPH 12008–12  Public goal to reduce GHG 
emissions 20% on absolute basis from 
baseline year 20072008  On target 5 6% energy  
consumption (absolute) 5  8% GHG 
emissions (absolute)
2005–08  5 20%Attributed to Global Energy  
Conservation program (energy  
efficiency projects, colleague  
awareness initiatives).
vOLATILE  ORgANIC  COmPOuND 
(vOC) EmISSIONS  
GRAPH 32002–08  Public goal to reduce VOC 
releases to air and water by 40%2006  Achieved goal 43%
2007-08  Additional 5 35% 
NOTE  Bar graph illustrates total 
releases of VOCs1 Emissions 2006 resulted from steam 
stripper malfunction. As allowed under 
permit, water containing solvent was 
alternatively injected into the onsite deep well.CLEAN ENERg Y 
GRAPH 2  2010  Public goal to meet global  
electricity needs using 35%  
clean energy 2008  17% (actual)
2010  21% (projected) Good progress—however, challenging 
goal to attain.
Projected 14% shortfall—closure of 
certain plants with cogen technology 
and financial viability of current clean 
energy technologies.fLEET EmISSIONS 2008–12  Internal goal to reduce GHG 
emissions annually by 5% (absolute) 2008  On target 5 6% (absolute) 
contribution to overall public goalfOCuS  increasing use of fuel cards,  
introducing more hybrids and dual-fuel 
vehicles, moving to midsize vehicles.
OzONE  DEPLETION  POTENTIAL 
(ODP) Em ISSIONS  
GRAPH 42002–07  Public goal to reduce ODP 
by 80%2006  Achieved goal 82% 
2007–08  Additional 5 28%
2005–08  5 71%Continued to monitor to ensure 
decline in ODP. 
TOT AL INJURY   
& ILLNESS RATE   
GRAPH 72006 BASELINE 1.30
2010 T ARgET 0.752007  1.41
2008  0.92
2007–08  5 34% 
2005–08  5 43% Additional 5 19% in rates needed 
in 2009. 
fOCuS  Locations with highest rates, 
concentrated ergonomics programs, 
and improving fleet safety in the 
sales force.wASTE REDuCTION  
GRAPH 5BASELINE ExPECTATION   
Drive down waste footprint,  
increase recycling rates 
 
2009 AND ANNu AL  
Internal goal to drive waste  
minimization opportunities:
•		At	least	two	solvent	recovery	and	
reuse projects at each API site 
•		Non-hazardous	waste	reduction	
goals at 100% of sites, focus on reduction of electronic waste2007–08  5 14% total waste  
generated
2005–08  5 30% in total waste 
generated
2005–08  46% average recycling rates 
(relative to total waste generated)
NOTE  2005–08 8 points increase 
(from 49% to 57%) in non-hazardous 
waste recycling rate.The total amount of waste generated 
continues to decline, resulting in less 
waste sent to landfills for incineration 
and other treatment. 
Overall recycling rates remain con-
stant;	however,	due	to	site	level	efforts,	non-hazardous rates significantly 
improved.    PERf ORmANCE  gOAL/  
INDICATOR gOAL  (YEAR END)  STATEmENT STATuS
wATER fOOTPRINT  
GRAPH 6BASELINE ExPECTATION   
Continue to conserve water by setting 
internal targets at site level 2007–08  5 16% total water use 
2005–08  5 40% total water use 
50% of the water used is non-contact 
cooling water returned to its source Attributed primarily to closure of 
manufacturing operations and facility-
specific energy efficiency and water 
conservation projects.
LOST -TIME  INJURY  
& ILLNESS RATE  
GRAPH 82006 BASELINE 0.50
2010 T ARgET 0.302007  0.61
2008  0.50
2007–08  5 18% 
2005–08  5 6% Additional 5 40% in rates needed 
in 2009. 
fOCuS  See aboveC
C
C
C
CC
C
CCC
C
N/A
C
N/A
C
N/A
fLEET SAfETY 2008–2010  Internal goal to achieve 
100% implementation of Global Fleet  
Safety Standard
BASELINE ExPECTATION   
Significantly reduce motor vehicle 
accidents (MVAs), No fatal MVAs2008  5 21% MVA U.S. Fleet
Fatalities (sales colleagues, MVA)
2007  2 colleaguesImplementation of Fleet Standard 
on target.
fOCuS  Increasing driver safety aware-
ness, mandatory MV record reviews 
and acting on compromising driver 
safety behaviors.
NOT aTIONs
LDAR =leak detection and repair  
 requirements 
ghg =greenhouse gas
hCfC =hydrochlorofluorocarbon  hvAC =heating, ventilation,  
 air conditioning  
5 =decrease (reduction)
q =increasesTaTUs key
 Goal achieved or on target
  Goal partially achieved or at risk for  not reaching target   Goal not achieved or not expected  to reach targetC
N/A50goVeRnAnCe51 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityhIG hLIGhTs
revised Corporate Governance Principles 
to provide that the Board will annually 
elect a Chairman of the Board, who may or may not be the CeO.
Updated lead Independent director 
Charter to better reflect responsibilities of this position.
amended bylaws to give shareholders 
ability to call special meetings.
redesigned executive compensation 
program to align our practices with our 
pay for performance philosophy as well as our shareholders’ interests. The current financial crisis has brought more scrutiny  
than ever before to the governance of corporations.  
At Pfizer, we have long understood the importance of 
good governance to our ability to operate as a trusted member of society. That’s why we established a corporate governance department in 1992—the first in a U.S. 
company—and why we seek to ensure that good 
governance and responsible business principles are rooted in the culture and values of our organization and the way 
we do business every day. 
Board Governance
Pfizer is governed by a 14-member Board 
of Directors. All are independent except Jeff Kindler, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and William C. Steere Jr., Pfizer’s Chairman Emeritus since 2001. Pfizer holds annual elections for directors, in connection with which the Corporate Governance Committee reviews the qualifications of all directors, evaluating 
skills and talents to assure a balance of 
disciplines and perspectives. The Corporate Governance Committee also seeks to further enhance the Board through gender and ethnic diversity.
Pfizer’s Board of Directors follows a set 
of Corporate Governance Principles and conducts an annual review to assure that the Principles are timely and effective, and supports the Board’s oversight and accountability on behalf of shareholders.
With a keen awareness of the 
importance of independent oversight on behalf of shareholders, the Board voted in early 2009 to remove the presumption that the role of Chairman of the Board would be held by the Chief 
Executive Officer. Instead, the Principles 
now provide that the Board will annually elect a Chairman of the Board, who may or may not be the CEO. If the individual elected as Chairman of the Board is the CEO, the independent directors will also elect a Lead Independent Director whose responsibilities include calling meetings of the independent directors and presiding over executive sessions of the independent directors. To better reflect these responsibilities, the Board also updated the Lead Independent Director Charter. Constance J. Horner is currently serving as Lead Independent Director. 
The revised Corporate Governance 
Principles and Charter of Responsibilities of the Lead Independent Director are available on the Corporate Governance section of our Web site. 
As part of its ongoing consideration 
of corporate governance issues, the Board amended Pfizer’s bylaws to give shareholders the ability to call special meetings. Previously, only the Chairman and the Board could call special meetings of shareholders. The revised bylaws are available on the Corporate Governance section of our Web site. Our Board of Directors is taking a more active role in overseeing Pfizer’s corporate responsibility agenda. Since Pfizer believes that our corporate responsibility efforts are an important aspect of our business success, the Board’s Corporate Governance Committee receives semiannual corporate responsibility updates and provides 
direction on prioritization of corporate 
responsibility issues. 
Executive Compensation 
Executive compensation has become a principal topic of discussion for many of our stakeholders. At Pfizer, the compensation of our Executive Leadership T eam (the CEO and the executive officers reporting directly to him) is determined by the Compensation Committee. Specifically, the Committee has direct responsibility 
for establishing annual and long-term 
performance goals and objectives for the CEO and reviewing the goals approved by the CEO for the other members of the Executive Leadership T eam. 
Our current Chairman and CEO, Jeff 
Kindler, was elected to these positions in 2006. His compensation is set by the Compensation Committee and approved by the Board. Jeff Kindler does not have an employment contract, and his retirement benefits are based on the same formula as for other salaried employees.
In support of our philosophy to align 
the interests of the executive officers with those of our shareholders, Pfizer executives are required to own Pfizer common stock 
equal in value to a multiple of salary, 
ranging from at least five times salary for our CEO to at least four times salary for the other members of our Executive Leadership T eam. Ownership must be achieved over a five-year period. 
As a result of a comprehensive 
evaluation of our compensation programs and practices that commenced in 2007, including feedback from shareholders, the Compensation Committee has taken several actions to redesign elements of our compensation programs to assure that they (a) are aligned with our pay for performance philosophy and our shareholders’ interests, and (b) are an effective tool to attract, motivate 
and retain executive management. 
Among other things, in early 2009, Pfizer implemented a new Executive Severance Plan for our executive officers. The new plan, based on Pfizer’s broad-based severance program for U.S.-based employees, reduces severance levels, GOveRNaNCe
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 52eliminates potential tax gross-ups, and 
offers a consistent and competitive severance program.
Over the last year, the topic of giving 
shareholders a “say on pay”—a non-binding, advisory vote on executive compensation—has been widely debated in the business and investment communities as well as at the government level. At Pfizer’s 2009 annual meeting, its shareholders approved, by a majority of the votes cast, a non binding proposal asking the Board of Directors to give shareholders an advisory “say on pay” vote. Because of Pfizer’s direct engagement with its investor community about executive compensation and other important governance issues, the Board had recommended a vote against this 
proposal. However, the Board views the 
majority vote as an important message from shareholders and is committed to seeking the best course of action for Pfizer and its investors. 2008 aCTIONs
Implemented a redesigned short-term 
annual incentive program.To more closely align annual incentives 
with the achievements of Pfizer’s financial and strategic goals, and to ensure that our executive compensation program is aligned with our pay for performance philosophy and shareholders’ interests, and is also an effective tool to attract, motivate and retain executive management. 
Implemented a redesigned, annual long-term 
incentive program for executives.To promote the achievement of Pfizer’s 
annual objectives during our transformation period while maintaining close alignment with our shareholders’ return on investment.
Following a comprehensive review of 
executive severance practices and programs, eliminated existing change in control agreements and adopted an executive severance plan based on our broad-based severance program for U.S. based employees.To reduce severance levels upon a 
termination of employment on a change  in control, eliminate potential gross-ups  on certain severance payments, and  offer a consistent and competitive severance program.aCTION RaTIONaLe
At Pfizer, we believe that public policy engagement includes 
defining and supporting policy positions that facilitate or improve our ability to do business in a commercially and socially sustainable manner. However, we recognize that it is important that our engagement is conducted in a legal and transparent manner. 
Pfizer’s lobbying and political contributions are guided  
first and foremost by federal and state lobbying registration and disclosure laws in the U.S. We also have a Corporate 
Procedure for Political Contributions by Pfizer Inc to ensure 
the company and use of its resources are in strict compliance with election laws and regulations around the world. The procedure restricts the use of Pfizer resources to support federal and state candidates, political parties and political committees.We recognize that compliance needs to be supported by 
information. Pfizer reports regularly on lobbying expenses— in 2008, our total reported U.S. federal lobbying expenses  were $12,180,000. We also publicly disclose semiannually our corporate political and employee contributions made through the Pfizer Political Action Committee, a nonpartisan organization that provides opportunities for employees to participate in the U.S. political process. A full report is available in the Lobbying and Political Contributions section 
of our Web site.
Pfizer has also voluntarily signed onto the European 
Commission’s new register of interest representatives 
in 2008. Through the register, we declared 2007 expenses related to interest representation of €750,000–800,000— broadly in line with other firms of a similar size. PUBLIC POLICy
Lobbying and  
Political Contributions 53 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilit yPfizer recognizes the importance to its 
shareholders of executive compensation 
and corporate governance practices. Consequently, Pfizer will continue to regularly consult with shareholders on both areas and seek continuous improvement in ways that will best meet the needs of its shareholders and business. For a detailed explanation of Pfizer’s 
compensation philosophy, which is set 
by the Compensation Committee and approved by the Board, please see the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of Pfizer’s March 12, 2009,  Proxy Statement.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/INvESTORS
Ethics & Compliance 
Pfizer’s Corporate Ethics and Compliance Program, established under the direction of our Board of Directors, supports the company’s unyielding commitment to high standards of legal and ethical conduct. Through the program, our Corporate Compliance Officer and staff provide oversight and guidance to ensure compliance with applicable laws, 
regulations and company policies, and 
foster a positive, ethical work environment for all employees. 
Ethical conduct starts with the Board 
of Directors at Pfizer, who follow the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors. Colleagues worldwide receive Pfizer’s Code of Business Conduct, known as the “Blue Book,” which explains Pfizer’s commitment to maintaining high standards and performing with integrity. Blue Book training was completed by over 16,000 colleagues in the U.S. During 2009 and 2010, the new online training will be rolled out to colleagues worldwide. Pfizer’s desire to have a best-in-class compliance program is an indicator of its dedication 
and commitment to integrity. We have 
invested significant resources to provide the most advanced training, auditing and monitoring systems worldwide.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/RESPONSIBILITY  OuR vAL uES
Pfizer’s values distill our core beliefs and 
the defining features of our culture. Our values reflect the enduring character of Pfizer and its people. These values are:
Integrity
CommunityPerformanceRespect for PeopleInnovationLeadershipCustomer FocusT eamworkQuality
Our values guide the actions of all Pfizer 
colleagues around the world and form the basis for our approach to corporate responsibility.
Interactions with Patient 
Advocacy Groups
Pfizer partners with patient advocacy 
organizations to support their programs and activities, such as health education and scientific research. This support takes many forms, including grants and charitable contributions for efforts that strengthen communities and work toward a healthier world. Partnering with these organizations allows Pfizer to better 
understand the needs of the patients 
who take our medicines, while helping the organizations inform and address the needs of those they serve.
Pfizer appreciates the need to provide 
information around these activities to alleviate stakeholder concerns. In 2008 Pfizer committed to reporting on all grants and charitable contributions to patient groups in the U.S. Pfizer is currently working with external stakeholders globally to determine the appropriate method and scope of disclosure worldwide, but because laws and rules vary from country to country, reporting will vary.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/RESPONSIBILITYIn the U.K., as a member of The 
Association of the British Pharmaceutical 
Industry (ABPI), Pfizer is required to declare a list of patient organizations with which we have involvement and describe the nature of these partnerships. We actually go beyond this requirement, and declare our full relationships with these groups. In providing funding to patient groups, 
Pfizer’s guiding principle is to ensure that 
the organization’s independence is not compromised and there is no dependency on funding we provide. Therefore, when disclosing our contributions on our Web site we also provide an approximate percentage of each organization’s revenue that is represented by our funding. 
Details of Pfizer U.K.’s charitable and 
in-kind donations made through the Pfizer U.K. Foundation and local community funds to organizations other than patient groups, are published in a wide range of external documents which are distributed among local and national stakeholders.
3  read mOre a T www.PfIzER.COm/uk
Human Rights
Pfizer strives to uphold human rights in all 
of our business activities. We fully support the principles in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Pfizer is also a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, and we have committed to support the 10 principles  
on human rights, labor, environment and 
anticorruption. 
Since our last report, we have received 
increasing queries from stakeholders about our human rights practices. In an effort to be responsive and formalize our support for the above principles and many of our existing practices, we established a new Human Rights Statement in 2008.
Pfizer supports the idea that people have 
a right to health, and, while we believe that governments have the primary responsibility for ensuring the realization of this right, we acknowledge the unique role we can play in promoting this right as well. We have developed many approaches to improve the health of people around the world through 
access to medicines and strengthening 
health care systems for underserved people, which are described in the Access to Medicines section of this report.GOveRNaNCe
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 54We also work to ensure that human 
rights are upheld in our supply chain 
through our participation in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative and our Supply Chain Responsibility programs described in the Manufacturing & Supply Chain section of this report.
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/RESPONSIBILITY
Litigation
Pfizer has reached an agreement with the 
Kano State government in Nigeria to settle Kano State’s claims arising from the 1996 Trovan clinical study, which was conducted during Nigeria’s worst meningitis epidemic in history. Under the terms of the settlement, Kano State will dismiss both the civil and criminal Trovan-related cases it filed against the company and various 
individuals, and Pfizer specifically denies 
any wrongdoing or liability in connection with the 1996 study. Also in connection with the settlement, Pfizer has agreed to establish a Healthcare/Meningitis Fund from which study participants can receive financial support and will underwrite several healthcare initiatives chosen by the Kano State government that benefit the people of Kano State. For more information about the settlement reached with the Kano State government see the joint statement from Pfizer and Kano State posted on our web site.
 The suits brought by the federal 
government of Nigeria are still pending  but we continue to work towards an amicable resolution of those cases as  well. Pfizer has been a partner with the people and governments of Nigeria for more than 50 years and believes that  a mutually agreeable resolution of all  of the Trovan cases is the best way to continue that relationship and allow Pfizer and the Nigerian governments to focus  on what matters—improving healthcare for all Nigerians.
Pfizer offers grants for independent continuing medical education (CME) intended to improve patient health status indicators through the provision of performance improvement strategies that integrate education, systems and quality. 
A number of states in the U.S. have passed legislation 
that requires pharmaceutical companies to report marketing expenditures to the state. Pfizer supports disclosing funding for medical education grants and other support to medical and patient organizations as well as charitable contributions. 
Our policy is to fund only those CME programs that are 
administered through organizations that are engaged in patient care or represent those who deliver patient care.  
These organizations are in the best position to achieve the highest recognized standards of quality in the medical profession today. We no longer directly support commercial CME organizations. 
Finally in May 2008, as part of our effort to be more 
transparent about our collaborations with outside parties, Pfizer began disclosing all funding in the U.S. for medical education grants and other support to medical and patient 
organizations working to improve the health of patients.PUBLIC POLICy
Disclosing Grants for  
Health Care Education 55 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilitylooking f oRwARD
Strong governance will continue to be an imperative 
at Pfizer. As we continue to expand globally and our 
supply chain becomes more diffuse, it will be important 
that our policies and support for colleagues be adapted to local needs and challenges around the world. Responsible business conduct lays the foundation for 
the rest of the company’s business strategies and 
corporate responsibility efforts, and we will continue our commitment to leadership in governance.eLIzaBeTh mCGeveRaN  
SENIOR  VICE  PRESIDENT ,GOVERANCE  & S USTAINABLE  INVESTMENT , F&C INVESTMENTS Pfizer recognizes that listening to 
investors and stakeholders is a crucial part of good governance, and its  staff and directors take the time to  do just that. 
The company has demonstrated its responsiveness by taking up 
requests by F&C and others to boost transparency of political contributions, and, more recently, broke new ground by reporting on its contributions to Patient Advocacy Groups. It also strives to produce compensation information that is truly useful to investors. However, the Board of Directors must not assume that dialogue can substitute for action. The Board’s response to two majority votes by investors in 2009 to introduce a so-called “say on pay” and to improve its special meetings provisions will be an important test of Directors’ accountability to the company’s owners.”sTakeh OLD eR CO mme NTaRy 
“maNUfa CTURING/ sUPPL y ChaIN
56
mAnuf ACtuRing & 
supply Ch Ain 57 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilit yhIG hLIGhTs
Conducted onsite quality audits of close 
to 400 potential and existing suppliers across the world during 2008.
assessed the eHS and labor performance 
of 389 new or existing supplier facilities through onsite inspections during the last five years.
Provided 43 training sessions on improving 
eHS performance at 25 different facilities 
which were attended by 530 supplier colleagues throughout 2008.Pfizer Global Manufacturing (PGM) supplies products 
to Pfizer’s businesses. PGM is being transformed into 
a global strategic supply network, consisting of major 
plants located in Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Japan, Puerto Rico and the U.S. By the end of 2008, we had reduced our internal network of plants over a five-
year period from 93 to 46. In 2008, as part of our Plant 
Network Strategy productivity initiative, eight plants were sold or closed in Canada, Germany, Italy, Sweden, 
Puerto Rico and the U.S. We plan to continue reducing 
our internal network of plants worldwide to 41 by 2010. It should be noted that often facilities are divested to other companies with an agreement to supply Pfizer for several 
years. This allows the acquiring company to develop 
additional business to make the plant sustainable. We never make these decisions lightly, realizing how difficult 
they are for our colleagues and their families who are 
impacted. However, we believe that the cumulative benefit to Pfizer will be a more focused, streamlined and competitive manufacturing operation. 
PGM is establishing a competitive “make  
or buy” supply network. We expect to increase outsourced manufacturing of products from approximately 17 percent to 30 percent over the next three years. Key considerations for outsourcing decisions include the ability to supply, capacity flexibility, cost competitiveness, and technology, while assuring supply 
chain integrity/reliability, product quality, 
and regulatory compliance. Any potential supplier is evaluated on its ability to produce material in a manner that is fully compliant with all regulatory requirements. 
Global Contract Manufacturing 
and Supply Chain Procurement
Global Contract Manufacturing (GCM) is 
part of PGM, responsible for managing approximately 150 contract manufacturers (CM) around the world. The GCM team is organized geographically with teams based in Brazil, Belgium, Singapore and the U.S. These teams are regarded as “virtual” sites and manage all aspects of CM performance in their respective 
regions. GCM leads a well-defined vendor 
selection process that includes due diligence inspections by Quality Operations and Environment, Health and Safety teams, as well as financial and legal evaluations. Negotiations on product supply terms and conditions result in formalized Supply and Quality agreements. Once a CM becomes a supplier to Pfizer, GCM engages in a Operational Excellence
At Pfizer, we highly value our culture of innovation and continuous improvement. We continue to make progress with our T echnology and Innovation strategy of reducing costs by $5 billion over 10  years. Through this process, Pfizer continues to improve manufacturing processes for pharmaceutical active ingredients that not only reduce costs, 
but are also environmentally friendly, 
significantly reducing the amounts of organic solvents required. 
The application of Lean Six Sigma 
principles assures that capable and efficient work processes are used to manufacture and deliver consistently high quality products to our customers. Pfizer has trained over 95 percent of colleagues worldwide in basic problem solving, which has resulted in over 8,000 improvement projects across the world in the last five years. Significant improvements to our key products have delivered a 40 percent reduction in both the time to make and ship the product as well as allowing a reduction in inventory.comprehensive oversight process, driven by risk assessments that focus on compliance with quality and environmental standards, product supply, and cost management. As the level of outsourcing increases, GCM is expanding the scope of due diligence and oversight activities with a focus on business continuity and supply chain reliability.
Pfizer’s Worldwide Procurement 
organization supports our commitment to assure quality and safety in the 
manufacture of our human and animal 
health products by engaging only with suppliers who share our high standards for business and personal ethics. Our procurement professionals regularly engage with suppliers to reinforce Pfizer’s expectations in all operational business areas. This collaboration leads to improvement projects with significant performance benefits, such as reduced packaging and transportation costs, and elimination of undesirable chemicals through process improvements.www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 58maNUfaCTURING & s UPPL y ChaIN
Quality Operations
As a large global company, Pfizer 
manufactures products in many countries and markets them in over 150 countries. Our plants are routinely inspected by many regulatory agencies for conformance with regulations. In 2008, we hosted more than 75 regulatory inspections and have not received a single critical observation. With regards to global suppliers of raw materials 
and products, we conducted onsite quality 
audits of close to 400 potential and existing suppliers across the world during 2008. Suppliers who do not meet Pfizer’s quality requirements are not permitted to enter or remain in the supply chain until they are able to fulfill the requirements. In limited cases, Pfizer has located experienced quality professionals onsite who provide day-to-day support for a set period of time. 
Pfizer uses innovative technology 
to protect the supply chain. The use of sophisticated analytical and tracking tools has been critical in identifying not only counterfeit products but also their sources. Pfizer works closely with government 
agencies to remove counterfeits from the 
supply chain thus benefiting the patient population. For more information on preventing counterfeiting, please see the Patient Safety section of this report.
Assessment and Improvement 
of EHS and Labor Practices at 
Key Suppliers
Pfizer is committed to using suppliers that 
demonstrate acceptable performance in both EHS and labor practices. Assessments help Pfizer manage business continuity, liability and reputation risks, while ensuring supply decisions align with company values. EHS and labor assessments are conducted for all new suppliers that meet certain criteria. Repeat 
evaluations are conducted periodically 
once a supply agreement is implemented. Pfizer’s onsite assessment of EHS and labor practices focuses on suppliers providing materials and services specific to the pharmaceutical industry, notably research and development, production of active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished-dosage-form medicinal products. To safeguard against potential business interruption, we have included key outsourced logistics centers into the assessment program. Currently, suppliers who provide basic commodity raw materials and services are not within the scope of the assessment program. Based on our interactions with our peer companies, we believe that ours is among the most comprehensive and sophisticated programs of its type in the research-based pharmaceutical industry.
Pfizer is a signatory to the 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative, also known as PSCI—a group of 
pharmaceutical companies who share 
the goal of helping their suppliers to achieve better environmental, health and safety performance while improving labor standards. Pfizer expects its key suppliers to implement PSCI’s Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management, which are available at www.pharmaceuticalsupplychain.org.
The need to complete an onsite 
assessment is driven by several factors and includes location, type and scale of manufacturing, product hazard characteristics, and supply criticality. Suppliers are assessed against Pfizer’s EHS and Labor “Supplier Expectations” which are based on Pfizer’s internal 
standards. Suppliers are assessed as either 
acceptable, requiring improvement or significantly below expected standards. 
During 2008 a total of 97 onsite 
assessments of supplier facilities were completed with a further 18 visits to closely monitor performance and verify closure of improvement items.  During the last five years of the 
assessment program more than 400 new or existing supplier facilities have been reviewed through onsite inspection. Of those facilities, 41 were identified as requiring improvement with 32 falling significantly below expected standards. At the end of 2008, Pfizer had supply relationships with 20 facilities that require improvement and a further six that are significantly below expected standards. Facilities requiring improvement are visited frequently to monitor corrective action plans and, depending on risks identified, are also a focus of Pfizer’s coaching and capacity building programs. Efforts to 
improve facilities falling significantly below 
standards are also completed, as well as development of exit strategies to alternate suppliers. In 2008, a total of eight facilities improved their rating from requiring improvement	to	acceptable;	however,	two	facilities unfortunately saw a rating drop from “requiring improvement” to “falling significantly below expected standards.”
Pfizer has been notified or made aware 
of EHS incidents within the supply chain. In the majority of cases, Pfizer reviews incident investigations to understand root causes and corrective actions. Where possible, Pfizer EHS colleagues visit the supplier facilities for an onsite evaluation to verify investigations and to provide 
guidance when needed (this was not 
always possible for significant events where regulator restrictions took priority).
Coaching and Training  
Our Suppliers
Pfizer allocates resources to helping 
suppliers improve EHS performance and began providing training on a formal basis in 2006 to key suppliers in China and expanded in 2007 to cover India. In 2008, training focused again in India and	China;	however,	coaching	was	also	provided to suppliers in Latin America and Europe. A total of 43 training sessions 
were completed at 25 different facilities 
and attended by 530 supplier colleagues throughout the year. In India and China, training was delivered at supplier facilities and focused on process safety and industrial hygiene. 80
7060504030
20
10
0   Significantly below  
expected standards
  Requiring improvement
  Acceptable
Total americas asia europe/
afmeSuPPLIER f ACILITY ASSESSmENTS59 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityFeedback from suppliers regarding 
Pfizer’s training programs has been 
excellent and has improved over time. The actual benefit of the training in the longer term is improved performance resulting in safer working conditions for employees and less risk for Pfizer. After three years of coaching in specific technical areas in China and India, we are now seeing better 
supplier performance through improved 
knowledge, management systems and capital investment. Unfortunately this has not been seen in all companies that attended the training, with two demonstrating a decrease in performance. Additional steps are being developed for these suppliers. 
Increasing Supplier Diversity
The objective of our Supplier Diversity program is to build a supplier base that reflects the changing demographics  of the consumer marketplace while  helping Pfizer increase market share and shareholder value. In order to do this,  we have implemented the following  four-part strategy:
•		Create	opportunities	through	our	
sourcing process to increase our spending with minority and women-owned businesses. 
•		Align	with	advocacy	organizations,	 such as the National Minority  Supplier Development Council and  the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC).
•		Launch	Supplier	Diversity	programs	globally, starting in the U.K., Canada  and South Africa. 
Pfizer has been named a T op Corporation for Women-Owned Businesses by the WBENC, which marks the fifth consecutive year that Pfizer has won this prestigious award. 
looking f oRwARD
Pfizer is continuously evaluating opportunities for 
improving management and oversight of the supply 
chain. Pfizer has commissioned a panel of external 
experts to evaluate Quality and EHS systems for managing outsourced manufacturing operations. The objective of the panel is to assure that Pfizer has 
strong controls allowing continued development and 
maintenance of relationships with third party suppliers capable of consistently delivering acceptable product 
quality and appropriately managing environmental, 
health and safety performance. Pfizer will adjust systems and controls as necessary following the expert panel recommendations which are expected later in 2009. mR. RamaPRasaD ReDD y
CHAIRMAN, AUROBINDOCorporate responsibility at Pfizer  
must be the work of every department  
on every day, and is what has attracted Aurobindo most as being one of the latest entrants into the Pfizer family of stakeholders. 
Pfizer has not only selected us as one of the stakeholders this year, 
but really proved it to us by collaborating and working with our teams in supply chain. Pfizer performed an audit to determine supply chain 
capability, and diagnosed certain deficiencies giving us 2.5 points 
on a scale of 4 and suggested Advanced Planning Scheduling (APS) and Vendor Management Interface. These inputs have been taken very positively by Aurobindo and are now reaping benefits. With the 
implementation of the above inputs, we should be moving to a 3+ on a 
scale of 4. Aurobindo is keen to understand “technology and innovation strategy” for manufacturing facilities to reduce costs. Right first time strategy, green purchasing and responsible contracting are the strategies equally innovative. We will certainly look at Pfizer results in the months  
to come to learn and adopt wherever we can!”sTakeh OLD eR CO mme NTaRy 
“60Colle Agues & 
Community61 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityhIG hLIGhTs
Created a Global w omen’s Council, 
which is composed of both senior-level 
women and men from around the world who share the goal of speeding progress toward Pfizer being an employer of choice for women. 
Contributed more than $107 million to 
nonprofit organizations across the United 
States and Puerto rico through the Pfizer Foundation’s employee Giving Programs in 2007 and 2008.
Honored by China r ed Cross for our 
humanitarian response to the earthquake 
that struck Sichuan province on may 12, 2008. Pfizer donated more than 1,800 volunteer hours and contributed $1.5 million in medicines and financial support to earthquake relief efforts. At Pfizer, we recognize that our employees are the key to 
our success. Without the scientists, engineers, sales and 
marketing team, and many, many other Pfizer colleagues, 
our medicines could never be developed and distributed to our customers. We recognize that we can only succeed in implementing our ambitious business strategies if we make 
Pfizer a great place to work for our colleagues by creating a 
culture of opportunity, accountability and inclusion.
We work toward this vision every day 
through a variety of programs. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to improve employee engagement, recognizing that engaged employees are not only better for our business but also derive more satisfaction from their work. Pfizer also recognizes the fundamental value of diversity and inclusion to our 
ability to innovate, and we have made a 
commitment to be a leader in this space. We also believe in the importance of supporting the communities in which we operate and have developed numerous initiatives at our sites around the world  to respond to disasters, promote education and health, and increase employee volunteerism. 
Colleague Engagement
Over the past few years, in the face of a rapidly changing business environment, Pfizer has strengthened its focus on employee engagement as a lever for business success. We understand that in order to instill a culture of innovation and continuous improvement, we must enable and empower our colleagues measure both engagement and inclusion, have revealed significant strides at Pfizer between 2007 and 2008. In addition to the 
critical work our managers and colleagues 
are doing to improve the team climate—  
an aspect of pivotal importance to enabling and empowering our organization—the responses to these surveys have led to the implementation of innovative initiatives as integrated competencies for senior leaders, managers and colleagues, an innovation platform for idea generation and development and a new colleague-driven forum for networking.
Diversity & Inclusion
Studies have demonstrated that when diverse viewpoints are considered, better business decisions are made. Pfizer prizes diversity, not only in visible characteristics such as gender, age and ethnicity, but also in underlying characteristics such as thinking styles, life experiences and sexual orientation. However, having a diverse colleague population is not enough to 
ensure better business decisions. It also 
takes a commitment to inclusion, where all people feel valued, involved, supported and respected, and where ideas from all sources are given a fair hearing through the decision making processes of the enterprise.
Since our last report, Pfizer has 
developed an integrated diversity and inclusion (D&I) strategy that encompasses colleagues, customers, suppliers and the communities where Pfizer people work and live. The overarching D&I strategy—which is driven through each of Pfizer’s business units and is the responsibility of each senior business leader—includes a global women’s strategy, a multicultural strategy, and a strategy to build upon colleague 
resource groups, such as the Latino 
Network in the United States.to continuously seek opportunities for 
progress. We believe that employee 
engagement launches a virtuous cycle of better performance (including productivity, profitability, retention and safety) leading to even higher levels of engagement. 
Enabling and empowering colleagues 
begins by ensuring that they are informed on how the business is developing and how problems are being met and overcome. We have also created many avenues to increase communications throughout the organization. For example, company-wide Town Halls, which follow each quarterly report on our financial performance, provide an opportunity to explain how business strategies are being implemented and to detail how investors are responding 
to Pfizer’s financial reporting. Conducted 
by webcast, these meetings also provide a forum for answering questions directly from colleagues around the world. 
Through the Colleague Advisory 
Committee, a group of 15 colleagues from various global geographies and business disciplines, meet every few months with our CEO Jeff Kindler and other members of the Executive Leadership T eam to discuss aspects of Pfizer’s business. While the challenges and opportunities discussed vary from meeting to meeting, the key continuing link is the desire to mold our company’s culture into one where leadership can be exhibited by every colleague, at every level. This is 
an important vehicle for the executive 
leadership team to get direct input from colleagues who are deep in the business  or field. There is great dialogue with instant feedback and reaction from the CEO, where colleagues’ voices are heard and respected.
Pfizer has also moved to put metrics 
behind its drive for greater employee engagement and inclusiveness. Two global employee surveys, managed through The Gallup Organization and designed to COLL eaGUes & CO mm UNIT y
www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 62gOvERNANCE
To ensure that the enterprise D&I strategy is 
executed, Pfizer has also taken these steps:
•		Named	a	Chief	Diversity	Officer,	and	 
placed her on Pfizer’s Senior Management T eam, and expanded investment into the operation under her direct span of control as well as into the “community of practice” encompassing all those responsible for diversity and inclusion in Pfizer’s divisions.
•		Created	the	D&I	Worldwide	Leadership	
Committee, headed by Pfizer’s president  
of Worldwide Pharmaceutical Operations. This committee is composed of 25 senior leaders, including six members of the Executive Leadership T eam, and provides 
high-level strategy guidance and 
accountability for Pfizer’s D&I strategy. This committee meets regularly to identify barriers to achieving Pfizer’s  D&I goals and to take action to overcome those barriers. This committee also reports to the CEO and the remainder of the ELT on Pfizer’s D&I progress and areas of opportunity.
•		Launched	a	comprehensive	program	
with the Emerging Markets Business Unit to make colleagues aware of unconscious bias and to embed all elements of the global women’s strategy into the mainstream of business for Pfizer’s operations in the developing world. 
mEAS uRINg PRO gRESS
For a major global company such as Pfizer, tracking D&I statistics is complex as local laws (including data privacy laws) often limit what information can or should be collected and what “categories” or defined groups may be included in such tracking or statistical data. Gender is the only defining characteristic that can be assessed and reported on globally. We are 
making progress advancing women in our 
worldwide workforce and people of color in the U.S. into senior management positions.
•		Pfizer’s	Executive	Leadership	Team,	the	
10-person decision making body at Pfizer’s summit, includes four women, one of whom is African-American. Three of these leaders have been named to 
the ELT since the beginning of 2008.
•		Pfizer’s	Senior	Leadership	Team,	the	
company’s penultimate decision making body, is composed of 118 senior leaders from around the world. Some 30 percent of these leaders are women. 
 •		Women	now	comprise	42.6	percent	
of Pfizer’s global workforce. In the 
U.S., 45.3 percent of the workforce is composed of women. 
•		In	Pfizer’s	U.S.	workforce,	7.2	percent	 
of colleagues are African-American,  4.3 percent are Latino and 9.9 percent are Asian.
RECENT  AwARDS
•		For	the	fifth	consecutive	year,	in	2009,	
Pfizer achieved the top “100 percent Rating” from the Human Rights Council for the company’s policies and practices concerning lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans-gendered employees.
•		In	2009,	Pfizer	was	selected	by	the	
National Association of Female Executives to be on its annual list of 
“Top Companies for Executive Women.” 
Employee Wellness
The health of our colleagues is critical to 
the productivity and success of Pfizer and in many ways is our frontline opportunity to meet our mission of “working together for a healthier world.” We provide employees with access to Healthy Pfizer, an innovative program that includes health risk assessment tools, personalized health improvement management, and coaching 
programs, as well as a customized health 
resource Web site and a 24-7 nurse line. Nutrition and fitness are also part of Healthy Pfizer.
On November 20, 2008, in honor of the 
Great American Smokeout, Healthy Pfizer announced our new, company-wide Global Tobacco-Free Policy. To help colleagues transition to this new policy, we added a new online and telephonic support system to supplement our already robust smoking cessation program and we distributed a comprehensive list of smoking cessation resources to all colleagues. 
wOR k-LIfE PROgRAmS
Work-life programs are an important element of employee wellness. In fall of 2008, marking 10 years on the Working Mother 100 Best Companies list, Pfizer initiated a communications campaign to promote the programs and policies that make Pfizer a leading place to work and profile colleagues who have benefited from work-life programs. For example, Pfizer’s 
parental leave policy has been increased 
to provide an additional six weeks of paid leave for colleagues in the United States and Puerto Rico. hIv/AIDS wOR kPLACE P OLICY  
As a global health care company, Pfizer  
is committed to the development of policies and the implementation of programs at its global workplace sites on HIV/AIDS nondiscrimination, awareness, prevention and health support. 
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/RESPONSIBILITY
DOwNSI zINg
During 2008, Pfizer continued the streamlining process known as Adapting to Scale which was launched in response to the unprecedented growth in staff that we experienced following two major acquisitions in the early 2000s. At a time when the health care industry was undergoing tremendous changes, and many of Pfizer’s most profitable medicines 
were going off-patent, this streamlining 
has provided Pfizer with the agility to compete during uncertain times. One measure of the success of this approach is that, despite the economic turmoil experienced by so many companies this past year, Pfizer’s financial situation has remained strong.
Through the Adapting to Scale 
initiative, a number of colleagues have been separated from employment with the company. Pfizer takes great care to develop selection criteria and processes for identifying colleagues for displacement. The selection criteria typically include business needs, skills and capabilities, and performance. To ensure the appropriate 
outcome is reached, multiple stakeholders, 
both internal and external to Pfizer, are asked to carefully review the processes. Those employees who have lost jobs as part of Adapting to Scale receive severance packages that include paid continuation of medical benefits and assistance in searching for jobs or returning to school. 
As we look ahead to the proposed 
Wyeth acquisition, we will continue to explore methods for increasing the ease of transition for our colleagues. While some of our specific programs may change as we come to better understand the scope of redundancies and the need for reductions in our joint workforce, we are committed to providing continued support that sustains 
our colleagues’ ability to meet their basic 
needs and provides access to resources that will help them find new opportunities. We have set a goal that each departing employee will take advantage of at least one of the transition opportunities we provide and we will undertake the communications and staffing needs necessary to meet that goal.63 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibilityPandemic Preparedness 
Program
The Pfizer Worldwide Pandemic 
Preparedness Program is designed to ensure that we have an overarching strategy in place across the global enterprise to ensure continued delivery of our critical products and processes. Our business continuity professionals have developed policies, and awareness programs, and have implemented 
contingency plans that will allow Pfizer to 
continue operating in the event of a local or global pandemic disease outbreak. 
Community Initiatives
Pfizer currently operates in over 100 countries worldwide. These communities are our foundation: they are where our employees and their families live and work and they are where the patients who  take our medicines live. We believe that it is vital to support these communities through partnerships and by enabling  our colleagues to engage through 
volunteer efforts. 
EART hqu AkE RELIE f Eff ORTS IN Ch INA
Following the devastating earthquake that 
struck the province of Sichuan on May 12, 2008, claiming 70,000 lives and leaving millions of people homeless, Pfizer’s locally based colleagues facilitated the establishment of the Colleague Response T eam and created and assumed leadership of a 24-hour hotline to communicate with employees to check on their condition. 
Pfizer also provided $1.5 million in 
medicines and financial assistance and encouraged colleagues to volunteer their time to assist in relief efforts. By late July 2008, 175 colleagues had donated more than 1,800 volunteer hours. 
PfIzER u .k. PARTNERS hIP
Pfizer U.K. has donated tens of thousands of packs of medicine to people living in extreme poverty or suffering from the effects of natural disasters, as part of a partnership with International Health Partners (IHP), a U.K.-based charitable organization that aims to provide free medical aid to the world’s neediest people. The partnership has provided more 
than $12 million worth of medicines at 
wholesale prices, which is the equivalent of 500,000 treatments, to countries that include Ethiopia, Liberia, Myanmar, Nepal, North Korea and Uganda. looking f oRwARD
When looking ahead, we continue to envision an 
organization that is supported by and supports 
colleagues who are highly engaged and enabled to 
seek opportunities, create progress, and contribute to our company’s mission of “working together for a healthier world.” Pfizer will continue our efforts to 
manage colleagues’ transitions responsibly, and we 
remain committed to creating a culture that supports our colleagues’ best efforts at work and to providing 
resources that support their health and wellness.fIghT Ag AINST Ch OLERA IN zI mBAB wE
Pfizer recently made a grant of $50,000 
to support relief efforts under way by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) to support efforts to combat cholera in Zimbabwe. Cholera, a potentially fatal intestinal infection that spreads through untreated sewage and contaminated drinking water, is quickly spreading in Zimbabwe. Pfizer’s grant to the U.S. Fund 
for UNICEF provides aid to UNICEF’s  120-day emergency response plan that 
delivers 95,000 gallons of safe water  each day. The program has also set up  70 therapeutic feeding centers to treat 9,000 malnourished children, and supported garbage collection efforts in affected areas. 
3  read mOre a T  
www.PfIzER.COm/RESPONSIBILITY
GReGOR y JONes
SENIOR THERAPEUTIC SPECIALTY CONSULT ANT
DSR–HOUSTON WEST DISTRICT PFIZER INCEvery few months, the Colleague 
Advisory Committee (CAC) meets with our CEO, Jeff Kindler. 
The fact that Jeff, in establishing the CAC, has taken such an  
open approach to communicating with colleagues, is evidence of the dramatic transformations taking place within Pfizer. The open and candid nature of our discussions has given me a great sense of optimism about the future direction of Pfizer, and a strong platform from which to share that optimism with my colleagues throughout our company.”sTakeh OLD eR CO mme NTaRy 
“www.pfizer.com/responsibilit y 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 64The future brings many opportunities and challenges for patients, 
stakeholders and for Pfizer. For our part, we will meet the demands  
that will come with the proposed Wyeth acquisition with a renewed 
commitment to fulfilling the role promised by our scale and expertise.  
We do not have all the answers, but pledge to actively engage and  
listen to our customers and stakeholders as we grow and develop  as a company.
Please watch for updates regarding our work and provide feedback  
on our Web site at www.pfizer.com/responsibility .Doing the  
Right things65 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT www.pfizer.com/responsibility
This Corporate Responsibility Report is printed on process chlorine-free FSC-certified Mohawk 
Options 100% PC, which is made with 100% post-consumer recycled fiber. The emissions from the electricity used to manufacture this paper are offset with credits from Green-e certified windpower projects. This paper is also certified by Green Seal.
DESIgN: IDEAS ON PuRPOSE, NYwww.pfizer.com/responsibility 2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 66COLL eaGUes & CO mm UNIT y
vIsIT U s ONLIN e aT:
www .pfiZeR.Com/
Responsibilit y235 East 42nd Street
New York, NY 10017-5755212-573-2323www.pfizer.com
© 2009 Pfizer Inc All rights reserved.
100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber