for complete reporting, visit  
chevron.com/sustainability2020  
corporate 
sustainability 
report2020 ESG highlights
of our Employee  
Assistance Program
During the pandemic, it offered virtual 
programs for our employees and their families, 
including mindfulness and yoga instruction.51 years
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) data  
are as of December 31, 2020, and exclude spend that  
is ultimately shared with our partners.protecting the 
environmentempowering  
peoplegetting results  
the right way
spent on woman- and  
minority-owned businesses$400M
chevron 2020 
climate lobbying 
report
issued our first  
climate lobbying report
of outstanding common  
stock represented in substantive 
ESG engagements40%+
joined the  
World Bank’s Zero Routine  
Flaring by 2030 initiative
climate change 
resilience  
advancing a lower-carbon future
highlighted three action  
areas for advancing a  
lower-carbon future in our  
Climate Change Resilience  report
targeted reduction in  
oil carbon intensity40%
targeted reduction in  
gas carbon intensity26%increase in our investment  
to address racial equity$15M
of our Board  
were women40%
2020 marked the 20th  
anniversary of our first  
formal employee network12 networks
joined the  
WBCSD’s Value Chain Carbon  
Transparency Pathfinder
Chairman’s letter continues on page 2In the face of this environment, our people responded with 
resilience, embracing adversity as an opportunity to learn and 
improve. Though we shared hardships, the lessons of 2020  
made us a better company, and strengthened our ongoing 
commitment to help advance a better future for all.
We believe energy enables modern life and powers human  
progress. As the human energy company, we use our ingenuity  
to solve problems, overcome obstacles and deliver solutions.  
Our culture allows ingenuity to thrive and creates an atmosphere 
where diverse voices, ideas, experiences and backgrounds  
are not only respected, but celebrated.
We transform these beliefs into actions and meaningful  
results through our environmental, social and governance  
(ESG) priorities, which are based on three pillars: protecting  
the environment, empowering people and getting results  
the right way.
protecting the environment
We set ambitious goals and strive for actions that drive  
measurable progress. Since 2016, we’ve reduced flaring by  
more than 60 percent and methane emissions by nearly  
50 percent. With these successes and the adoption of new  
2028 carbon intensity reduction targets, we’re driving  
our combined oil and natural gas carbon intensity to be about 
35 percent lower than 2016 levels. We’re holding ourselves 
accountable by tying executive and employee compensation  
to these shared goals.
empowering people
Living by our social contract with employees and other  
stake  holders was perhaps never more important than it was  
this past year. We strive to create an inclusive work environ  - 
ment that values the unique  ness of each individual’s talents, 
experiences and ideas. With operations, business partners  
and colleagues located around the world, we recognize  
and encourage diverse voices—not only because it’s the best 
source of innovation, but because it’s the right thing to do.  message from  
our chairman and CEO
“Over the past year,  
we, like every company, 
navigated a world  
facing the economic and  
social impact of the 
pandemic, heightened 
demands for racial  
equity, and an increasingly 
polarized political 
environment. ” 
chevron.com/sustainability
1This is a long-standing commitment, marked by the 20th 
anniversary of our employee networks—communities  
that celebrate and promote diversity and work to attract,  
retain and mentor Chevron talent.
getting results the right way
We aim to act with the highest integrity and operate with the 
highest ethical standards. We embrace the expectations of  
our stockholders and stakeholders and hold ourselves accountable 
by transparently reporting on performance. We published our 
third Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
aligned report and released our first Climate Lobbying Report , 
both of which detail gover  nance, oversight and activities related to 
climate policy engagement.
While 2020 was a year of unprecedented adversity, we believe the  
prospects for human progress remain as positive as ever. The race  
for a COVID-19 vaccine brought together scientific ingenuity, 
tech  nological innovation and manu  facturing agility to advance 
the common good. The same spirit of cooperation, goodwill and 
perseverance will enable us to address other global challenges.  
We find that prospect energizing and encouraging.
Michael K. Wirth  
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executive Officer  
May 2021Above:  Chevron CEO Mike Wirth works from home during the COVID-19 pandemic.2020 awards and recognition
• Forbes ’ Just 100 and Best Employers For  
Women lists
• Top 14 percent of 200 global companies receiving 
EDGE Certification for Gender Equality
• 13th of 250 companies—and 1st among energy 
companies—on As You Sow’s Racial Justice  
S&P 250 Scorecard 
• National Business Inclusion Consortium: Best of 
the Best Corporations for Inclusion
• The American Chamber of Commerce Thailand: 
CSR Excellence Recognition Award (Platinum)
• 100 percent on the Disability Equality Index  
for the Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion
• 100 percent rating: Human Rights Campaign 
Equality Index (15th consecutive year)
• Organization of the Year (Company) award  
at the Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers 
Professional Conference
• Top Veteran-Friendly Company by U.S.  
Veterans Magazine
• 5-star rating in Employment and Governance,  
The Hispanic Association on Corporate 
Responsibility 
• Pink Petro presented Chevron’s Black Employee 
Network with the GRIT Award for the “Best of the 
Best” Affinity Group in the Energy industry
chevron.com/sustainability
2in this report
visionperformance  
and dataprotecting the 
environmentempowering  
peoplegetting results  
the right way
1
message from  
our chairman  
and CEO
4
message from  
our VP, strategy  
and sustainability
5
board insight
6
our board of  
director s
7
COVID-1911
climate change
18
environmental  
risk management
20
water
23
biodiversity27
diversity and  
inclusion
31
human rights
34
creating  
prosperity
36
sustainable 
development goals38
governance
40
lobbying and trade 
associations
42
health and safety46
performance  
data
62
our operational 
excellence 
management  
system
63
additional  
information
chevron.com/sustainability
3chevron.com/sustainability
2The integration of teams, processes and value 
chains has accelerated our ESG progress,  
as demonstrated by the following examples:
• Exceeding carbon intensity reduction targets 
and establishing new targets. We exceeded  
our 2023 Upstream carbon intensity reduction 
targets three years ahead of schedule, announced 
lower 2028 targets and committed to zero routine 
flaring by 2030. Achieving these new goals will 
allow Chevron to remain a global top-quartile oil 
and gas producer.
• Making global supply chains more transparent.  
Chevron recently signed an agreement to supply 
carbon-footprinted liquefied natural gas (LNG)  
to Singapore’s Pavilion Energy. Along with 
partners, Chevron is co-developing a greenhouse 
gas quantification and reporting methodology  
for LNG, so that each LNG cargo can be accom-
panied by a carbon footprint value from wellhead 
to point of delivery. This standardized, data-
driven LNG carbon footprinting methodology will 
be one of the first for the industry, creating the 
opportunity to deliver verified offset-paired LNG.
• Developing more diverse leaders.  During 
Chevron’s 2020 reorganization, we advanced 
visible diver  sity. Through the design of a more 
efficient structure and the engagement of  
broadly diverse leaders in the selection process 
itself, we increased the share of senior-level  
jobs held by women and racial and ethnic 
minorities to 44 percent.
• Highlighting sustainability’s role in good 
governance.  The Board revised the Public Policy 
and Sustainability Committee charter to clarify 
their leadership role among the Board committees 
in providing oversight of climate risks, policies  
and trends that affect Chevron’s activities  
and performance.message from our VP, 
strategy and sustainability 
Last year’s Corporate Sustainability Report  highlighted the 
integration of the Chevron strategy and sustainability groups  
into a single team.
This shift has improved our ability to drive actions across a 
diverse, complex global organization, enabling us to identify new 
opportunities for progress on our sustainability priorities and 
achieve results faster. I’m proud to say that our accomplishments 
this past year have been the result of a companywide effort.
This starts with engagement by Chevron’s Board of Directors.  
At the highest level, the Board maintains focus on environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) issues and leverages their diverse 
experience to challenge assumptions about the future. Their role 
is to provide oversight of Chevron’s efforts to build an enduring 
business—one that is capable of delivering strong financial  
returns while meeting our sustainability goals.
This Board-level approach is actively embraced by our leadership 
team, beginning with our CEO. Together, we create alignment 
across the company to drive progress through transparent, 
responsible performance.
Chevron’s commitment to sustainability has never been stronger. 
This report demonstrates how our approach is integrated through -
out our business to strive to protect the environment, empower 
people and get results the right way—today and tomorrow.Bruce Niemeyer
Vice President,
Strategy and Sustainability 
chevron.com/sustainability
4board insight
To learn more about our leadership and corporate governance,  
visit chevron.com/investors/corporate-governance .Hernandez:  One of Chevron’s governance best practices 
is periodic rotation of Board committee assignments 
and Chair positions. As I step into my new role as Chair of 
the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee 
(PPSC), I’m eager to get your insights from serving in 
this role for the past few years. What stands out to you 
about your time as Chair of PPSC?
Austin:  I’ll start with how the Board and the company 
responded to the challenge of COVID-19. The PPSC’s 
charter calls for us to assist the Board in overseeing risks 
that may arise in connection with the social, political, 
environmental, human rights and public policy aspects 
of Chevron’s business and activities. COVID-19 posed a 
significant, real-world test of Chevron’s risk management 
approach and systems. I am proud of how Chevron’s 
leadership and employees maintained the company’s 
resilience throughout this challenging period. I believe 
this is a direct reflection of The Chevron Way. 
Hernandez:  What other achievements are most 
memorable from your time as PPSC Chair?
Austin:  I am proud of the level of reporting and actions 
taken to position Chevron to thrive in the energy 
transition. When the company issued our first Climate 
Lobbying Report  in December 2020, we demonstrated 
responsiveness to our stockholders’ concerns, par  -
ticularly those relating to ESG and sustainability issues,  
as we strive for more transparency. This, together  
with our 2021 Climate Change Resilience  report, shows 
the company’s actions to enhance our reporting on 
climate change risks and opportunities.Hernandez:  As a member of the PPSC for the past eight 
years, I share your view that the PPSC has been active in 
addressing these social and policy issues.
Austin:  As I join the Management Compensation 
Committee (MCC), I’d appreciate your thoughts on 
linkages between the MCC and the PPSC.
Hernandez:  You talked about how the PPSC and the 
entire Board responded to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
My experi  ence as recent Chair of the MCC reinforces 
that the Board has been mindful of the circumstances 
around compensation for 2020—and of the extraordinary 
commitment displayed by our employees in very 
challenging circumstances. The Board took decisive 
action to address the expectations of our stockholders 
on this issue. We believe we made the correct decision 
to provide no bonus for executives, while rewarding 
employees for contributing to stockholder value and 
upholding The Chevron Way.
Austin:  Are there other aspects of your work with the 
MCC that link up with the PPSC?
Hernandez:  One important aspect of our MCC role 
involves approving an executive compensation philosophy  
that aligns with Chevron’s strategy and stockholder 
interests, including those related to sustainability and 
climate change risks and opportunities. That certainly 
pertains to the focus I’ll have with the PPSC.Enrique Hernandez, Jr.
Incoming Public  
Policy and Sustainability  
Committee ChairDr. Wanda M. Austin
Outgoing Public  
Policy and Sustainability  
Committee Chair
a conversation with the outgoing  
and incoming chairs of the board’s public  
policy and sustainability committee
chevron.com/sustainability
4chevron.com/sustainability
5our board of directors
 (1) Audit:  
Debra Reed-Klages, Chair(2) Board Nominating and Governance: 
Wanda M. Austin, Chair (3) Management Compensation:  
Charles W. Moorman IV, Chair (4) Public Policy and Sustainability: 
Enrique Hernandez, Jr., ChairCommittees of the BoardMichael K. Wirth
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Former Vice Chairman of the Board  
and Executive Vice President of  
Midstream & Development, ChevronRonald D. Sugar
Lead Director
Retired Chairman and CEO,  
Northrop Grumman Corporation (2)Wanda M. Austin
Retired President and CEO,  
The Aerospace Corporation (2, 3) John B. Frank
Vice Chairman,  
Oaktree Capital Group, LLC (1)
Alice P. Gast
President, Imperial College London (2, 4)Enrique Hernandez, Jr.
Chairman and CEO, Inter-Con Security 
Systems, Inc. (4)Marillyn A. Hewson
Retired Chairman, CEO and President,  
Lockheed Martin Corporation (1)Jon M. Huntsman, Jr.
Former U.S. Ambassador to China, 
Russia; Former Governor of Utah (4)
Charles W. Moorman IV
Senior Advisor to Amtrak;  
Retired Chairman and CEO, Norfolk  
Southern Corporation (2, 3)Dambisa F. Moyo
CEO, Mildstorm LLC (1)Debra Reed-Klages
Retired Chairman, CEO and President,  
Sempra Energy (1)D. James Umpleby III
Chairman and CEO, Caterpillar Inc. (2, 4)
chevron.com/sustainability
6COVID-19
maintaining financial strength 
The pandemic posed major challenges to our company’s 
financial position, following two years in which we 
simultaneously increased our dividend, funded our capital 
program, increased production and bought back shares,  
all while further paying down debt. While 2020 was 
markedly different, both in financial and human terms, 
our financial priorities remained unchanged: growing 
the dividend, reinvesting to grow future cash flows, 
maintaining a strong balance sheet and returning excess 
cash to stockholders. We’ve responded to the COVID-19 
crisis by focusing on the things we can control: reducing 
capital spending, deferring early-phase projects, curtailing 
production, reducing operating costs, releasing drilling  
and workover rigs, and suspending well-completion pro -
grams. Through these efforts, we increased our divi  dend, 
reduced our 2020 CAPEX from $20 billion to $14 billion  
and maintained the strongest balance sheet among our 
peers. We are confident that these strategies will sustain  
us through the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.As the human energy company, we aim to prioritize the health, 
safety and well-being of our people and communities every   - 
where we do business. The pandemic has presented challenges, 
forcing us to adapt quickly to dynamic and unpredictable 
circumstances. Effective emergency response is part of our 
corporate DNA and has served us well as we’ve dealt with this 
evolving risk.
We entered the crisis with a robust existing response infrastruc  -
ture and experience that has enabled us to deal with a diverse  
set of unprecedented events—from earthquakes in our home  
state of California to hurricanes and other extreme events in other  
parts of our global operations. We learned to be agile and 
effective in dealing with other epidemics, from SARS1 and Ebola 
to HIV/AIDS. While the COVID-19 pandemic and its associated 
circumstances are unprecedented on many fronts, we utilized 
our experi  ence and preparation to execute an agile and effective 
emergency response. 
Chevron assembled a global Corporate Pandemic Response  
Team (CPRT) to protect our workers, contractors and the 
communities where we operate from the rapidly spreading  
SARS-CoV-2 virus. The CPRT consists of enterprise experts from 
multiple functional disciplines. Within the first three days, the  
CPRT established plans to ensure our operations around the  
world could continue to deliver the energy the world needs to 
support the response to COVID-19. We quickly identified workers  
deemed “essential” to safely maintain onsite functions and 
facilities, such as offshore production platforms and refineries.  
We established protocols to keep these essential workers  
safe and switched the bulk of our workforce to remote work  
to protect their health and safety.
While the SARS-CoV-2 virus poses ongoing and evolving 
challenges, the CPRT remains dedicated to safety. To back up  
that commitment, we benchmark ourselves to learn where  
we excel and where we may become even more rigorous and 
effective in our response.the pandemic demonstrated that effective  
emergency response is part of our corporate DNA
$6B reduction
we have reduced our 2020 CAPEX  
from $20 billion to $14 billion
chevron.com/sustainability
7chevron.com/sustainability
6keeping major capital projects on track
We are managing our major capital projects while safeguarding  
our employees and contractors around the globe. For example,  
our joint-venture Tengizchevroil (TCO) in Kazakhstan has worked  
to balance safety and progress on the Future Growth Project  
(FGP). At the beginning of the pandemic, TCO initiated a temporary  
demobilization of more than 27 ,000 project personnel to reduce 
workforce risk and allow greater access to medical facilities, 
including critical care. Throughout this demobilization effort, 
production operations were not interrupted and critical logistics 
work for FGP continued. TCO also instituted “podding,” or 
compartmentalization, strategies across accommodations, 
facilities and worksites to prevent close contact between groups  
of workers. To date, these efforts have been successful, allowing  
TCO to remobilize 25,000 workers at site (as of March 31, 2021). 
supporting our communities
Chevron has a long history of contributing to crisis response and 
relief efforts. As of December 2020, we have committed over  
$29 million to local communities specifically for COVID-19-related 
response efforts. 
providing for adequate health care
Ensuring the health and safety of our employees and the 
communities in which we operate is a core value of The Chevron 
Way. One of the ways we demonstrate this is by providing  
direct health care to our employees in Nigeria and certain other 
countries where we operate. During COVID-19, we expanded access for virtual medical appointments, particularly in locations 
where it was unsafe to visit a doctor. This pandemic has created 
stress for many of our employees, particularly those balancing 
work-life issues such as child care and elder care. In response,  
we stepped up our mental health program and encouraged 
employees to utilize our Employee Assistance Program, which 
includes access to mental health and wellness resources, a 
substance abuse program, and a new resiliency app. 
employee pay and benefits related to COVID-19
In 2020, an employee survey focused on the COVID-19 impact 
on employee well-being and the company’s response to the 
pandemic. The survey results positively reinforced some actions 
taken by Chevron and helped inform further actions to address 
the impact on employees and their families. We offered enhanced 
mental health and wellness support, financial assistance for 
unplanned child care needs, and remote learning resources,  
among other efforts. We continue to offer expanded sick pay 
and family leave pay to assist employees with quarantine, school 
closures, family care obligations or other pandemic-related 
issues. In the United States, a new policy allowed paid time off for 
employees missing work as a result of family care or child care 
circumstances due to COVID-19. 
managing our supply chain 
The economic impact of COVID-19 on our industry threatened  
the financial health of many of our suppliers. To safeguard 
operations and reduce disruptions, we increased monitoring of 
supplier financial risks and utilized flexibility to respond to our 
business partners’ needs. Our efforts are focused on supply 
assurance, commercial assurance and relationship management. 
For example, we shortened the payment cycle for suppliers 
encountering financial problems and have negotiated special  
rates with key suppliers that may be disproportionately impacted 27,000+
TCO initiated a temporary  
demobilization of more  
than 27 ,000 project personnel$29M+
committed to  
local communities
chevron.com/sustainability
8IPIECA/IOGP
Members of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association (IPIECA) and International Oil and Gas 
Producers’ (IOGP) Joint Health Committee, including Chevron, 
share best practices to ensure the well-being of workers and 
communities during the COVID-19 crisis. The issues range from  
working in remote and offshore locations, to procedures related  
to return to normal workplaces. The committee, which consists 
of professionals from across the oil and gas sector, has produced 
a range of relevant materials over the past year. These include 
a briefing document on the mental health impacts of the 
pandemic, a paper on COVID-19 testing, a position paper on  
COVID-19 vaccination usage and a recent document that 
provides an update on approved vaccines.
by reduced drilling operations. These efforts have limited schedule 
disruptions and budget impacts on our major capital projects  
and other base-business operations. 
applying the lessons we’ve learned
We pride ourselves on being a “learn and improve” organization. 
While we had plans in place before COVID-19, we developed 
new safeguards and operating standards and updated existing 
protocols to adjust for the ever-changing conditions of this 
pandemic. We have also learned that the infrastructure adopted 
by CPRT can be applied, with modifications, to similar global-
scale crises. Additionally, we’ve developed a “back to workplace” 
strategy, with paced, evidence-based stages. As with all events, 
lookbacks may provide more helpful emergency response insights.
To learn more about our response to COVID-19, visit   
chevron.com/COVID-19 .Angela Barrow
Enterprise Manager,  
Emergency Management
employee spotlight
Shortly after the first cases of COVID-19 were reported in  
China, our Pandemic Preparedness Alert System was 
activated. The team initially focused on returning nonnative 
and nonessential China-based employees to their home 
countries and on actively monitoring conditions and  
the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. I remember, it was like 
watching the slow, yet inevitable, spread of an unabated 
wildfire. As confirmed cases of COVID-19 climbed, I was 
responsible for quickly activating Chevron’s Corporate 
Pandemic Response Team (CPRT) to proactively protect  
our workers, contractors and global operations. We reduced 
operations to essential employees and became creative  
in helping workers return home safely, overcoming obstacles 
like border closings, flight cancellations and other mobility 
challenges. Sometimes, we chartered or booked humani   tar ian 
flights—a heroic effort by our Global Travel Team, coordi  nating  
with governments and global partners.
Responding to emergencies and crises, particularly over 
prolonged periods, can be truly demanding. We have  
to look out for one another. Our CPRT employed a variety of  
mechanisms to address fatigue and burnout, including 
rotating time off, mindfulness sessions, and acknowledg  ments 
for those that went the “extra mile.”
in-kind donations
worth $1.28MChevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) and joint-venture partner 
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) partnered  
to support coronavirus response efforts in Nigeria, with 
Chevron committing in-kind donations worth $1.28 million for 
an ambulance, ventilators, medical diagnostic equipment  
and personal protective equipment.
chevron.com/sustainability
8chevron.com/sustainability
9protecting the environment
we work to deliver the energy the world needs while protecting the environment
Above:  A herd of camels near the Tengiz Field, western Kazakhstan. In this section, learn about our approach to biodiversity.
chevron.com/sustainability
10environment
climate change
policy
metricsinnovation support targeted policies carbon pricingpipelinedrilling &
completionsproductionliquefaction/
reﬁningshipping usecarbon  
footprinting
• Standardized reporting 
enabling buyer choice• Reliable, verifiable information 
driving returns• Life-cycle carbon-footprinted 
products mobilizing actionlower  
carbon intensity
cost-efficientlyincrease  
renewables and offsets
in support of our businessinvest  
in low-carbon technologies
to enable commercial solutions
$300M
committed to the  
Future Energy Fund II$2B
by 2028 in carbon-
reduction projects$750M
by 2028 in investments  
in renewables and offsetslower-carbon  
capital allocationthree  
action areas
upstream production net greenhouse gas emissions intensity reduction metrics for 2028:
 24 kg CO 2e/boe for oil (global industry averages 46) 40% reduction from 2016
 24 kg CO 2e/boe for gas (global industry averages 71) 26% reduction from 2016
 2 kg CO 2e/boe for methane and a global methane detection campaign 53% reduction from 2016
 0 routine flaring by 2030 and 3 kg CO 2e/boe for overall flaring 66% reduction from 2016We believe achieving 24kg CO 2e/boe for oil and for natural gas would place Chevron in the 
top quartile of total production, meaning among the most carbon-efficient producers.  
This is our objective for 2028. chevron.com/sustainability/environment/energy-transition24 =higher returns, lower carbon
chevron.com/sustainability
11chevron.com/sustainability
10our goal
We are building on our strengths to reduce the carbon 
intensity of our operations and assets by optimizing 
carbon-reduction opportunities and integrating 
greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation technologies across  
the enterprise. These efforts drive progress on metrics, 
enabling us to update progress on a timeline aligned  
with the Paris Agreement.
chevron.com/climatechangereliable and disciplined oversight 
Our governance structure calls for Chevron’s full Board of  
Directors to exercise their oversight responsibilities and executive 
leadership to set strategy and day-to-day management with 
respect to climate change–related risks and energy-transition 
opportunities. Oversight is executed through regular engagement 
by the full Board of Directors and also through deeper, focused 
engagement by all Board committees. This occurs primarily 
through the Board’s Public Policy and Sustainability Committee, 
and also involves the Board’s Management Compensation, Audit, 
and Nominating and Governance committees. At the executive 
level, we manage climate change–related risks and energy-
transition oppor  tun  ities through the Enterprise Leadership Team 
and the Global Issues Committee.
risk assessment and management
We face a broad array of risks, including physical, legal, policy, 
technology, market and reputational risks, as laid out in our  
10-K filings. We utilize an enterprisewide process to assess major  
risks to the company and seek to apply appropriate mitigations  
and safeguards. 
As part of this process, we conduct an annual risk review with 
executive leadership and the Board of Directors and assess our 
risks, safeguards and mitigations.
higher returns, lower carbon
Our primary objective is to deliver higher returns, lower carbon  
and superior stockholder value in any business environment. 
Chevron’s strategic and business planning processes bring together  
the company’s views on long-term energy market funda  mentals  
to guide decision-making by executives and to facilitate oversight 
by the Board of Directors. Most published outlooks conclude  
that fossil fuels will remain an important part of the energy system  
over the coming decades, and that the energy mix will include 
increasingly lower-carbon sources. As part of our strategic 
planning process, we use propri  e tary models to forecast demand, 
energy mix, supply, commodity pricing and carbon prices—all  
of which include assumptions about future policy, such as those 
that may be implemented in support of the Paris Agreement’s  
goal of “holding the increase in the global average temperature  
to well below 2° C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing  
efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5° C above pre-
industrial levels.”to achieve global net zero,  
markets should be empowered  
to incentivize the most  
carbon-efficient producers
We support the Paris Agreement and its goal of “holding  
the increase in the global average temperature to well below 
2° C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit  
the temperature increase to 1.5° C above pre-industrial levels,” 
which, per the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(IPPC), implies reaching global net zero in the second half of 
this century. We believe that the optimal approach for society 
is to drive the most efficient and cost-effective reductions 
economywide, paired with negative emissions from man-made 
and natural sources. Narrow sectoral or geographic metrics 
are less efficient than broad economywide solutions, which are 
uniquely able to incentivize the most efficient and cost-effective 
reductions. Chevron supports a price on carbon, applied as 
widely and broadly as possible, as the best approach to reduce 
emissions. We work to encourage national policies to support 
international linkages (for example, through Article 6 of the  
Paris Agreement), with the goal of ultimately building up to a 
liquid and integrated global carbon market.
chevron.com/sustainability
12our strategy
lower  
carbon intensity
cost-efficientlyincrease  
renewables and offsets
in support of our businessinvest  
in low-carbon technologies
to enable commercial solutions
API
Chevron has been working in leadership roles within the 
American Petroleum Institute (API) to develop a template for  
oil and gas companies’ reporting of core GHG emissions  
data. By developing a template that prompts for reporting  
of consistent, comparable GHG data, API seeks to support  
API member companies in reporting climate information  
in a transparent manner to the financial sector, policy makers, 
industry customers and other stakeholders. When finalized,  
the template will be a tool that individual energy companies  
can use in their climate reporting. The initiative is consistent  
with API’s principle of advancing the understanding of global 
climate change risks and opportunities to help achieve  
effective future policies .success in a lower-carbon future
As a global company, we operate in many jurisdictions that have 
enacted lower-carbon policies. In 2020, more than 60 percent 
of our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 equity GHG emissions were in 
regions with existing or developing carbon-pricing policies, in 
addition to other lower-carbon policies like mandates for biofuels 
and renewables, methane regulation, and emerging support 
for technologies like carbon capture, utilization and storage 
(CCUS) and hydrogen. Under current and potential future market 
conditions, we seek to understand the impacts of climate-related 
actions and strategies and to advance opportunities to increase 
returns to investors.
Chevron’s energy-transition strategy is to advance a lower-carbon 
future, and we will leverage our capabilities, assets and expertise  
to focus on three action areas that aim to deliver measurable 
progress that is both good for investors and good for society. 
Our intent is to deliver affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy  
that enables human progress and delivers superior stockholder 
value. Our actions are focused on: (1) lowering our carbon intensity 
cost-efficiently, (2) increasing renewables and offsets in support  
of our business, and (3) investing in low-carbon technologies  
to enable commercial solutions.We use carbon prices and derived carbon costs in business 
plan  ning, investment decisions, impairment reviews, reserves 
calculations and assessment of carbon-reduction opportunities. 
We believe that our portfolio is resilient and that our asset  
mix enables us to be flexible in response to potential changes  
in supply and demand, even in lower-carbon scenarios. 
See our Climate Change Resilience: Advancing a  
Lower-Carbon Future report, Section 3.6, for more,   
chevron.com/climatechangeresilience2021 .
chevron.com/sustainability
13chevron.com/sustainability
1240
20
01030
2016 2016–2020 2021–2028 2029+Kilograms CO e/boe2016 Emissions intensity Achieved
MACC
projectsPortfolio
Future
MACC
projects
Innovation
& o setsCombustion
Flaring
Fugitives & venting
Indirect emissions
estimated high and low rangesworking toward a net-zero futureWe are building on our strengths to reduce the carbon intensity 
of our operations and assets by optimizing carbon-reduction 
opportunities, and integrating GHG-mitigation technologies  
across the enterprise. These efforts drive progress on metrics, 
enabling us to update progress on a timeline aligned with  
the Paris Agreement.
We selected more than 60 MACC projects to lower our carbon  
intensity to advance to execution. We plan to spend more  
than $100 million in 2021. We expect to spend approximately  
$2 billion on them through 2028, on the path to deliver our  
2028 performance metrics. Further out, we have additional  
MACC opportunities identified that have the potential to lower  
our Upstream carbon intensity into the mid-teens. Significant 
technology advancements and the development of large offset 
markets could enable reductions to net zero by mid-century.Colby Hall
Integrated Optimization  
Team Lead, Cabinda Gulf Oil Co.
employee spotlight
I’ve always been a results-driven person, and my current 
position enables me to see positive results in two interdepend  - 
ent categories—decreasing our operating expenses and 
reducing the intensity of our greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs).
Our workforce was inspired by the marginal abatement cost 
curve (MACC) studies in 2019 and we kicked into gear in the 
second half of 2020. Basically, MACC is a visualization that 
represents a rank order of GHG-reduction opportunities by 
showing their relative cost and abatement potentials. MACCs 
help us target carbon-reduction activities more efficiently. 
During the economically challenging second half of 2020,  
our team was able to develop a roadmap and began 
progressing the small capital projects that had the highest-
impact GHG reduction at the lowest cost. 
I find it exciting to have an impact in my work at Chevron,  
and I continue to be motivated by the growing environmental 
stewardship of Angolan employees and corporate experts.
chevron.com/sustainability
14$3B+
invested through 2028  
to advance our  
energy-transition strategy$2B by 2028 in carbon-reduction projects
$750Mby 2028 in investments  
in renewables and offsets
$300Mcommitted to the  
Future Energy Fun d IIboe = barrels of oil-equivalent estimated high and low rangespipelinedrilling &
completionsproductionliquefaction/
reﬁningshipping useAccess to reliable, verifiable carbon-footprinted data is important for buyers to make informed  
decisions, enabling contributions toward meeting Paris Agreement goals. In addition, carbon-footprinted 
data can enable price discovery, a compar  i  son of the “green premium” and alternatives, and potentially 
incen  tivize reducing both carbon intensity and the “green premium” cost-efficiently.carbon footprinting
working to track the carbon footprint through the value chain
chevron.com/sustainability
14chevron.com/sustainability
15
World Business Council for Sustainable Development—  
Value Chain Carbon Transparency Pathfinder:  End-to-end  
value-chain transparency on primary GHG emissions at a  
product level provides important data to help organizations  
make informed decisions as they work toward a lower-  
carbon future to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement.  
Within the Pathfinder, Chevron is working together with  
other committed stakeholders from across the value chain, 
independent industry bodies such as GHG Protocol, and 
technology companies to develop the methodological and 
technical infrastructure required to create such transparency.Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) GHG value-chain emissions 
reporting:  Pavilion Energy and Chevron have signed a five-year  
LNG sale and purchase agreement under which each LNG  
cargo delivered will be accompanied by a statement of its GHG 
emissions. The parties are committed to co-developing and 
implementing a GHG quantification and reporting methodology  
for LNG based on internationally recognized standards and 
covering emissions from well-to-discharge terminal, including  
LNG transportation.we support research, develop   ment, 
demonstration and deployment  
for emerging technol   ogies to address 
climate change
• A focus on emissions
• Pre-commercial support
• Scalable solutionswe believe a price on  
carbon should:
• Be the primary policy to reduce emissions
• Be economywide to apply to all sectors
• Spur innovation and enable support  
to affected communities, consumers and 
businesses
we support well-designed and  
properly enacted methane regulation, 
in the energy industry and in other  
key emitting sectors
• Performance-based regulation
• Technological innovation
• Industry best practices
• All sectors contributingwe believe the world’s oil and  
gas should be supplied by the most 
efficient producers, and we  
address Scope 3 emissions by:
•  Supporting a price on carbon
•  Transparently reporting
•  Enabling customers to lower their emissionsChevron supports the Paris Agreement and is committed to addressing climate change while  
continuing to deliver energy that supports society. Climate policy should achieve  
emissions reductions as efficiently and effectively as possible at the least cost to economies.chevron’s approach to key climate issues
chevron.com/sustainability
16chevron supports well-designed emissions-reduction metrics
Our approach is designed to facilitate carbon accounting  
that not only reduces our own emissions, but also sets a frame  - 
work that facilitates the possibility of achieving global net  
zero as efficiently and effectively as possible, and at the least  
cost to society. Achieving these metrics is directly tied to  
the compen  sation of our executives and most of our  
employees worldwide.This approach, coupled with our view of Scope 3—supporting  
a price on carbon through well-designed policies; transparently 
reporting emissions from the use of our products for nearly  
two decades; and enabling customers to lower their emissions 
through increasing our renewable products, offering offsets  
and investing in low-carbon technologies—supports a global 
approach to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement as  
efficiently and cost-effectively as possible for society.
up to point of sale
aligned with influence/  
control to incentivize action  
along the value chaincommodity basis
aligned with end use, enabling  
value-chain reportinggas oilequity basis
aligned with  
financial reportingoperatednonoperated
tradable
aligned to offer  
the marketplace premium  
lower-carbon productsverifiable
aligned with  
accurate value-chain  
emissions reportingupdated every 5 years
aligned with Paris 
Agreement’s global stocktake 
updates (2023, 2028) 24 kg CO 2e/boe for oil (global industry averages 46) 40% reduction from 2016
 24 kg CO 2e/boe for gas (global industry averages 71) 26% reduction from 2016
 2 kg CO 2e/boe for methane and a global methane detection campaign 53% reduction from 2016
 0 routine flaring by 2030 and 3 kg CO 2e/boe for overall flaring 66% reduction from 2016chevron upstream emissions intensity reduction metrics for 2028: 
chevron.com/sustainability
17chevron.com/sustainability
16environment
environmental  
risk management
our goal
Protecting the environment while providing affordable, 
reliable and ever-cleaner energy takes commitment, 
supported by effective processes, leading technologies  
and dedicated people. It takes the commitment to keep  
learning—and constantly improving.
chevron.com/sustainability/environment  
#enhancingenvironmentalstewardshipChevron’s Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS)  
has helped build our Operational Excellence (OE) culture  
and improve our health, safety and environmental performance 
over time. 
To facilitate continual improvements in environmental 
performance, we have developed a new environmental risk  
management strategy that is aligned with our Chevron 
environmental principles. The strategy provides a dynamic 
framework to identify emerging and long-term environmental  
risks and issues as well as drive actions to improve our  
performance across the enterprise.
Chevron’s environmental risk management strategy will:
• Set and track objectives to meet environmental expectations
• Enable data-driven decision-making with enhanced digital 
innovation and analytics
• Expand the use of risk management practices and cost-  
effective technologies to identify and mitigate risk, benefit  
the environment, and make better decisions
• Inspire our workforce by recognizing the good work we  
already do and by increasing employee engagement
environmental risk management process: 
identify and manage environmental risks  
across the asset life cycleenvironmental risk management strategy: 
drive improvements in environmental 
performance across the enterprisethe chevron way: who we are, what we believe, 
how we achieve and where we aspire to go
OEMS, environment focus area: the frame-  
work we use to manage significant 
environmental riskswe’ve devised a  
new environmental  
risk management 
strategy to better 
identify emergency 
and long-term risks
chevron.com/sustainability
18Our Mid-Continent business unit (MCBU) has been using elements 
of the environmental risk management strategy to drive auto  - 
mated and integrated data collection, analytics and visualization  
to improve environmental performance, communication and  
compliance efficiencies with a long-term focus on maintaining  
progress. Additionally, MCBU conducts cross-functional com-
petency training to equip their workforce with current, relevant 
information related to regulatory changes, compliance refreshers, 
enterprise environmental goals and commitments, and best  
management practices. These actions are designed to enable  
recognition of environmental conditions, so our employees are 
capable stewards who are empowered to actively care for the  
environment no matter what role they serve. The environmental 
risk management strategy is evergreen, and the shaping plan to 
realize the strategy will continue to evolve as our business evolves.
Chevron’s Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment 
(ESHIA) process has been the cornerstone of evaluating potential 
impacts of capital projects. To build on the success of ESHIA,  
we are expanding our approach to risk management to enable  
the evaluation of environmental risks throughout the life cycle  
of Chevron’s assets. We have developed a new Environmental  
Risk Management Process (ERMP) that works alongside our 
existing Stakeholder Engagement and Issue Management (SEIM) 
process to strengthen our integrated approach and consistently 
manage environmental, social and health risks.
The ERMP is designed to align with the practices of the Chevron  
OE Risk Management Process  in identifying, mitigating and 
managing environmental risks from exploration activities, capital 
projects, operations, and asset retirement. The goal is for each 
business unit to have its environmental information documented  
in an environmental risk register to understand its risk profile  
and appropriate mitigation options more clearly. 
Field studies are an example of how the ERMP can be utilized  
to assess environmental risk, aiding the business to make  
data-driven decisions. In our Australasia business unit (ABU), 
sensors mounted on remotely operated underwater vehicles, 
gliders on the ocean surface and unmanned aerial vehicles have 
been used to verify characteristics of an offshore permitted 
discharge at our Wheatstone Platform. This field measurement 
allowed ABU to confirm that the project design was conservative 
and that the discharged wastewater was mixing with ocean  
water more vigorously than modeling had indicated, resulting  
in a lower estimation of risk than originally established. Imple -
mentation of the ERMP will aid in the identification of high-
consequence environmental risk scenarios, which would allow  
for more systematic risk-based field monitoring.UNEP-WCMC
The Biodiversity Indicators for Site-based Impacts (BISI) 
project —a joint initiative between the United Nations 
Environment Programme-World Conservation Monitoring 
Centre (UNEP-WCMC), Conservation International and  
Fauna & Flora International, with support from the International 
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association 
(IPIECA) and the Proteus Partnership—developed and tested 
a methodology for aggregating biodiversity impact/benefit 
and performance data at a site level to provide indicators 
of biodiversity management performance at the corporate 
level. The screening step of Chevron’s new Environmental Risk 
Assessment and Management Procedure is designed to align 
with the BISI methodology to allow for consistent screening  
of biodiversity risk across the enterprise.Don Danmeier
Integrated Optimization  
Manager, Waste and Water
employee spotlight
My education and training were as an ocean engineer, and 
during my first several years at Chevron, I applied numerical 
models and analysis to support offshore capital projects 
and marine operations. This included establishing metocean 
design criteria and operational support for drill rigs in the  
Gulf of Mexico. I loved that work.
I moved into the Health, Safety and Environment function 
several years ago with a focus on environmental and oil spill 
risks. I especially enjoy working with teammates who bring 
multiple perspectives to a problem and appreciate that 
Chevron is open to collecting input from a diverse group of 
subject matter experts with a deep understanding across 
physics, chemistry and biology. Their technical rigor and 
range of experience help us seamlessly integrate science into 
the decision-making process and provide the comprehensive 
risk management our Operational Excellence Management 
System demands.
The company has a finite amount of resources, and we want 
to prioritize how we use them so we effectively identify and 
manage high-consequence environmental risk. Grounding our 
processes in science helps us understand our risks and have 
appropriate safeguards to manage them.
chevron.com/sustainability
19chevron.com/sustainability
18environment
water
We updated our Operational Excellence Management System  
(OEMS) to emphasize more visible linkages between risk,  
assur  ance and safeguards and a streamlined approach to 
managing risk. Our Chevron Way values  and OEMS expectations 
provide a solid foundation to guide our decisions and actions.  
Our environ  mental principles integrate a risk-based approach to  
drive continual improvement.
We have a range of processes that evaluate and help us manage 
risks that may be associated with our water use. These processes 
focus on:
• Considering water conservation and efficiency in key decisions
• Striving to conserve, reuse and recycle
• Using appropriate metrics to report on water use 
• Engaging with governments, partners, local communities and 
other stakeholders on significant water resource issues in areas 
where we operate
reducing freshwater use
Our Mid-Continent business unit (MCBU) has a Surface Water  
Use philosophy that aligns with Chevron’s water statement  
in its goal to reduce the amount of fresh water used in operations. 
MCBU strives to cut freshwater use by using brackish water 
resources and recycled produced water instead of fresh water 
when possible. In the Permian Basin, the organization has 
decreased the proportion of fresh water used in their completions 
from 15 percent in 2016 to zero in 2020. Concurrently, they have 
increased the use of recycled produced water from zero in 2017 to 
29 percent in 2020. These results demonstrate the unit’s practice 
of integrating a risk-based approach that assesses potential  
social and environmental impacts across the life of their assets. 
operations and water variability
Operating in an area of water variability, our Richmond, California, 
refinery meets its industrial water needs through a cooperative 
relationship with the East Bay Municipal District (EBMUD). EBMUD 
operates one of the largest industrial water reuse projects in 
California, with the capability to provide around 7 .5 million gallons 
per day of recycled water for the refinery. using water  
responsibly is integral  
to our values,  
environmental policy  
and practices
Conserving and protecting water resources is essential  
for the communities where we operate and for our  
busi  ness. Using water responsibly is an important part  
of being a good partner in the communities where we 
work. We protect this critical natural resource through  
our risk-based management systems, processes  
and standards.
chevron.com/water
from 15% to 0
decrease in the proportion of  
fresh water used in MCBU’s  
completions from 2016 to 2020
from 0 to 29%
increase in the use of recycled  
produced water by MCBU since 2017
chevron.com/sustainability
20The relationship is twofold. One operation involves the treatment  
of secondary-treated wastewater to an even higher purity standard 
to supply four cooling towers at the refinery. In addition, the 
refinery receives recycled water from the Richmond Advanced 
Recycled Expansion (RARE) Water Project for use in its boilers to 
generate steam while manufacturing gasoline, jet fuel, diesel  
and lubricants. Only high-purity water can be used in boilers for 
reliable operations. 
By using recycled water for most of its water needs, the refinery 
frees up enough drinking water to meet the indoor and outdoor 
water needs of more than 83,000 residents.
balancing our water needs and those of society
Our Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture applied a robust risk-  
based approach to balance and forecast various water needs of 
their day-to-day operations, a major construction project (the 
Future Growth Project—or FGP) and the local community’s need  
for potable water for drinking and recreational activities. 
TCO collaborated with Chevron Technical Center and the RAND 
Corporation to create a model that helped to explain the impacts 
of water shortages, the importance of seasonal spikes in demand, 
and the different constraints on potable and technical water (for 
use in TCO’s construction and operations). TCO then focused on 
increased conservation in their residential campus and contractor 
camps, a shift in water supply from potable to technical water 
in one village, and additional investment to ensure that existing 
wastewater treatment and recycling facilities were operating 
reliably. For their FGP construction, TCO used alternate water 
sources, including recycled or recovered water for most of their 
construction needs. 
Concurrently, TCO commissioned a wastewater treatment facility 
(WTF) and associated water recycling facilities (WRF) to focus on 
freshwater conservation and wastewater management. The treated 
wastewater from the WTF provides the WRF influent to produce 
high-quality water for operational purposes. Operation of the  
WRF supports TCO initiatives related to freshwater conservation 
and wastewater management. Since the WRF was completed in 
2016, recycled water from their operation has increased TCO’s  
annual recycled water rate to over 30 percent of overall consump -
tion. And the facility is a major component of TCO’s long-term, 
comprehensive water management program. Bhavana Karnik
Environmental Program Manager,
Environmental Risk and Process
employee spotlight
I’m passionate about water management as an important 
component of Chevron’s broader environmental focus 
area. The company has evolved from managing water as an 
operational issue to recognizing it as a vital need for our entire 
society. We incorporate tools and guidance and collect data 
to include potential environmental, social and community 
impacts to inform decision-making. As someone with a Ph.D. 
in water management, the scientist in me is encouraged by 
Chevron’s strategy to drive data-based decision-making to 
best conserve, recycle and use water responsibly. 
Before taking on my current role, I was a Health, Safety and 
Environment specialist for our Mid-Continent business unit. 
My role provided perspective that helped me recognize  
water as a local issue that had to be analyzed and managed  
taking local factors into consideration. Additionally, deci   - 
sions need cross-functional engagement and alignment  
for success  ful implementation. That understanding carries 
over into assessing water needs across our operations.  
One number can’t be used to make all decisions about water 
manage  ment. We need to have the openness to recognize 
that one metric can mean very different things from one 
location to another. We are using a risk-based approach to 
protect people and the environment to guide decisions and 
safeguard selections for our enterprisewide water use.  
We’re still learning. But I’m confident that we’re on a journey 
that’s worth making.
chevron.com/sustainability
21chevron.com/sustainability
20low 
(<10%)
low–medium  
(10–20%)
medium–high  
(20–40%)
high  
(40–80%)
extremely high  
(>80%)
no datawater stress
arid and low  
water use
Recognizing that water stress models continue to evolve, in 2020 
we conducted an initial review of our operated assets using the 
Water Resources Institute (WRI) Water Risk Atlas  to increase 
our understanding of the baseline water stress in the areas where 
we operate. Because of the global nature of our business, our 
assets do not share the same physical attributes and would not 
be impacted in the same way across our portfolio. Our OEMS 
processes will help manage risks and develop safeguards that may 
be associated with our water use, while we continue to explore 
water indicators that effectively communicate our water use over 
time and track performance.IPIECA
Chevron, as a corporate member of the International Petroleum  
Industry Environmental Conservation Association  (IPIECA), 
collaborates closely with the Water Working Group (WWG) on 
several projects related to water management. Chevron has 
recently been involved in developing a peer-to-peer workshop 
to continue to promote awareness and implementation of WWG 
products in the wider oil and gas industry, which is scheduled to 
occur during the first half of 2021. Chevron is also collaborating 
on a study to understand and identify physical climate risk 
assessed by publicly available drought and flood risk tools and 
their application within the oil and gas industry. By actively 
leveraging our collective expertise, we’re helping to incorporate 
our environmental vision in the documents and products 
developed by this group.Source: WRI Aqueduct, accessed on May 17, 2021, at aqueduct.wri.org .
chevron.com/sustainability
22environment
biodiversity
we support biodiversity 
through our values, 
performance, communication 
and engagement
We understand that humans and the natural environment 
interact with each other in various ways. Ecosystems  
per form many functions in supporting sustainable eco  - 
 nomic development. Through our Operational Excellence  
Management System  (OEMS), we work to identify and 
manage potential impacts our operations and activities 
may have on the natural environment and the ecosystem 
services relied upon by communities.
chevron.com/biodiversityvalues
Our company’s enduring culture of operational excellence drives 
us to deliver results the right and responsible way. This includes 
placing the protection of communities and the environment among 
our highest priorities. It is this value that helps define and shape  
our actions on biodiversity. 
performance
Our new Environmental Risk Management Process  (ERMP), 
under OEMS, is designed to operationalize a risk-based approach 
to identify, assess and manage potential risks to the environment, 
including those related to biodiversity, across the life cycle of 
Chevron assets. This approach is guided by the principles of the 
mitigation hierarchy, which seeks to avoid, reduce, mitigate or 
offset potential impacts to the environment, including on sensitive 
species and habitats. The ERMP is designed to build on our existing 
OEMS processes and practices to:
• Incorporate biodiversity considerations into our business 
decision-making and management. This can include modifying 
how and where we design, build and operate our facilities 
• Consider whether and how to operate in a protected or sensi-
tive area based on area- and operation-specific circumstances, 
legal authorization, and ability to meet or exceed regulatory 
schematic diagram showing  
the implementation of the mitigation hierarchy
preventive
• Physical controls
• Operational controls
• Abatement controlsminimization
• Restoration offsets
• Averted loss offsetsoffsets
• Reestablishing  
habitat types
• Reestablishing  
biodiversity values
• Reestablishing  
ecosystem servicesrestoration
• Avoidance
• Site selection
• Design
• Schedulingavoidance
no yesCan potential impacts be 
managed adequately through 
remediative measures?remediative
chevron.com/sustainability
23chevron.com/sustainability
22requirements, and capability to manage the risk of potential 
impacts by using appropriately protective operating practices
• Apply Chevron’s “Protective by Design” concept, which requires  
the application of the principles of the mitigation hierarchy, 
where there are potential risks from our operations to sensitive  
biological resources, and seek ways to make positive contri-
butions to biodiversity conservation in the area
technology to drive performance
To understand and protect species and ecosystems on and 
surrounding our assets, we review available tools and technol  - 
ogies for application in our operations. One such tool is 
environmental DNA (eDNA) technology, which detects DNA 
fragments in environmental samples and matches them to  
known species’ DNA sequences in online libraries to identify  
which species are present in an area. Enabled by recent  
advances in DNA sequencing technology, eDNA is faster,  
more cost-effective and more powerful than most conventional 
ecological measurement methods. eDNA allows a compre  - 
hensive assessment of local environments and is highly sensitive  
to detection of rare, threatened or invasive species. 
We have applied eDNA in a variety of environments, including  
to understand and manage the potential risks of alien invasive 
species associated with marine transport operations; to test  
for the presence of rare, endangered or invasive species prior 
to the commencement of new operations; and to provide a 
rapid baseline data collection approach for impact and recovery 
monitoring during a potential oil spill.
collaboration between  
the private sector  
and the UNEP-WCMC
Through our collaboration in the Proteus Partnership , we  
have access to global biodiversity data to support quality 
decision-making and risk assessments where we operate. 
Proteus is a voluntary collaboration involving the UN 
Environment Programme World Conservation Monitoring  
Centre (UNEP-WCMC), other major conservation organizations 
and private sector companies. Proteus partners share 
biodiversity data, participate in forums and training sessions, 
and collaborate on approaches to better understand, plan  
for and manage potential biodiversity impacts.Anargul Kalelova
Environmental, Labor and  
Community Team Lead,  
Tengiz Field, Tengizchevroil
employee spotlight
My greatest privilege is working with the people committed  
to managing Tengizchevroil’s (TCO’s) environmental, labor 
and community issues and seeking to reduce, or avoid  
as much as possible, our footprint in our environment and 
community. I am proud I am working with them. 
Working with biodiversity experts, I have expanded my 
knowledge of the ecosystem here and of the importance  
of conserving biodiversity, which involves our having  
strong management plans. I am focused on conservation 
efforts to protect our natural areas and the flora and fauna 
that occupy them. 
TCO recently announced support for an exciting conser -
vation project: to design and test a number of conservation 
measures that will be implemented to provide breeding 
conditions for the Sociable Lapwing. The Sociable Lapwing,  
a bird listed as Critically Endangered by the International 
Union for Conservation of Nature, breeds on open grassland  
in the steppes. Kazakhstan is home to the main breeding 
colony of the birds, which annually migrate from their nesting 
groups to the Middle East, Eastern Europe, East Africa  
and Asia. 
The project has five objectives, including working with 
farmers to safeguard nests at risk from plowing, satellite 
tracking of these birds, field research to understand changes 
in their nesting habitat, and raising awareness of the  
Sociable Lapwing and its conservation status within local 
communities. TCO is proud to be a supporter of the project  
to help an iconic bird of the Kazakh steppe.
chevron.com/sustainability
24CBU’s environmental team was rewarded with a sign of their 
success recently when the team spotted a caribou foraging in the 
area. “Caribou are what’s called an ‘indicator species’ because 
they are highly sensitive to disturbances in their habitat,” explains 
Dziuba. “Their presence on a restored location is a solid indication 
of success because a species as sensitive as caribou likely wouldn’t 
use the site were it not consistent with the surrounding area.”
communication and engagement
We work to raise internal and external awareness of the importance 
of conserving biodiversity, to build partnerships around the  
issue, and to support wider efforts in biodiversity conservation. 
These include:
• Communicating about our biodiversity-related activities to 
employees and outside audiences
• Engaging with government, local communities and others to 
understand and work to address significant biodiversity issues  
in areas where we operate
• Participating in industry associations and other forums to share 
and promote information and awareness around biodiversity 
conservation
• Seeking to understand and, where appropriate, participate in 
development of external policy-making activities that affect our 
operations, such as those adopted under the UN Convention  
on Biological Diversity and national, regional and local 
biodiversity policies and plansprotecting species
Biodiversity can also shape our decisions at the end of a project’s 
life cycle and can include restoration activities designed to  
restore site habitat and biodiversity functions consistent with  
the surrounding setting. 
For example, our Canada business unit (CBU) has been conducting 
restoration work in the Horn River area of British Columbia since 
they ceased activity on a natural gas site in 2019. At Horn River, 
CBU’s well-abandonment activity involved contouring the site area 
in a way that matched the surrounding environment.
In summer 2020, work was completed on five sites, which included 
planting more than 30,000 trees, managing invasive species  
and conducting final detailed site assessments. In 2021, Chevron 
will apply for our first Certificates of Restoration in British Columbia  
on three sites, which involves demonstrating the trees have been 
established successfully.
Paul Dziuba, environmental specialist at CBU, explained that  
CBU’s goal is “that in the future you’ll never know any oil and gas 
activity took place on the lease.” He added, “We’re on the lookout 
for signs like sensitive species to use as a directional guide that 
we’ll achieve that goal.”collaboration with  
wildlife habitat council
The Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) empowers companies 
to implement habitat conservation and education initiatives 
on company lands, and certifies these activities through 
its voluntary sustainability standard, WHC Conservation 
Certification. ® In 2020, Chevron received Conservation 
Certification renewal for wetlands that were constructed  
as part of the reclamation process at our former Cincinnati  
Refinery. Additionally, Chevron is engaging with WHC to 
leverage WHC’s technical expertise in designing closure  
plans to help establish sustainable ecosystems and improve 
wildlife habitat.30,000 trees
were planted on five sites  
by our CBU in 2020  
as a restoration activity 
chevron.com/sustainability
24chevron.com/sustainability
25empowering people
we put people at the center of everything we do
Above:  Portrait of one of our 42,628 employees in the field. In this section, learn about our approach to diversity and inclusion.
chevron.com/sustainability
26social
diversity and inclusion
Our future success depends upon preparing our workforce for 
an ever-changing energy market. Chevron’s key Human Capital 
Management (HCM) goals involve investing in our people and 
culture to meet the world’s future energy challenges. Foundational 
to those goals is our cornerstone value of diversity and inclusion  
as part of The Chevron Way . 
We focus on:
• People strategies that help us attract a new generation of 
problem-solvers, build the capabilities needed for the future,  
and reinforce collaborative and team behaviors
• A compelling, consistent employee experience that aligns  
the needs of our workforce with business objec  tives,  
such as rewarding long-term performance, promoting a  
continual learning culture, and encouraging informal  
learning and personal growth
• Developing the leadership capability of our workforce and 
managing our succession plans 
• Fostering a workplace culture that enables the entire work  - 
force to reach its full potential
accountability
ensures diversity and  
inclusion are moving forwardA
communications
inspires and  
informs workforceC
training
educates on  
inclusive behaviorsT
selections
ensures a robust  
pipeline of diverse talentSChevron is continuing to advance a diverse and inclusive workforce  
and work environment through intentional conversations about diversity  
and inclusion. The following pillars drive intentional actions in support  
of an inclusive culture.we are building a strong, 
inclusive culture by 
encouraging diverse ideas 
and experiences
Throughout our history, Chevron has been a place 
where we celebrate ingenuity and potential. A culture 
that is built on a common purpose, teamwork, respect 
and feedback—and rooted in inclusion, trust and 
empowerment—is essential for everyone to be their  
best in the workplace. And by fostering diversity 
and inclusion at all levels of our company, we rely on 
individuals with an array of talents, ideas and  
experiences to drive our success.
chevron.com/diversityandinclusion
chevron.com/sustainability
27chevron.com/sustainability
26We have launched updated demographic dashboards to provide 
leaders with greater insights into workforce representation. 
Additionally, we ensure diverse selection teams and diverse  
slates as part of our selection practices, and inclusion counselors  
were embedded in job selection teams during the company’s  
2020 reorganization to help minimize bias in the candidate 
selection process.
recognizing our high-potential women
In 2020, we launched the Global Women’s Leadership Develop -
ment Program (GWLDP). The establishment of GWLDP is 
consistent with our recognition that we achieve the best business 
results when we draw upon and develop the diverse talents  
of our workforce. 
With a goal of increasing the number of women at senior  
levels, we set three broad objectives for the program:
• Provide strategic development planning for high-potential 
women earlier in their careers
• Offer access and visibility to influential senior leaders, job  
owners and personnel development committees
• Establish resources to support development, including  
coaching, mentoring and skills growth 
GWLDP kicked off with a two-phase pilot program involving 
women employees from eight countries, 12 reporting units and  
12 functions. During an initial phase in February, the program 
explored self-awareness, a recognition of pitfalls that might 
impede success and the development of strategic approaches.  
The participants were given training to pursue before resuming  
the program for a second, two-week module online in July and 
September, which focused on senior management and stake  -
holder engagement, how to gain greater visibility and pursue  
one’s career goals, and how to benefit from external coaching.
Program feedback was consistently positive. Participants cited 
learning activities that helped them focus on strengths and 
weaknesses, the opportunity to build relationships, and receiving 
coaching as the most valuable components. London Worrell
Finance Manager,  
Crude Supply & Trading  
North America
employee spotlight
While at Chevron, I’ve been fortunate to have several 
opportunities to help drive cultural change. In 2019, after  
our CFO Pierre Breber and the Finance Leadership Team 
chose me as the Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Advisor for 
Global Finance, I helped to set up Finance’s D&I structure, 
goals, strategies and action plan. In 2020, Finance won 
Diversity, Inclusion and Ombuds’ “D&I Function of the  
Year” award and I was recognized for my involvement in 
supporting the function’s D&I growth.
Another example of how our culture is evolving is the three-
day Women of Color workshop for multicultural women  
that Chevron’s Diversity, Inclusion and Ombuds (DIO) 
organized in 2019. I was one of 24 women across Chevron 
invited to attend, and the experience really inspired  
me. The workshop resulted in recommendations from  
the participants that led to several impactful actions  
that DIO implemented. 
Since then, we’ve organized an internal social media page, 
“Empowering Women of Color at Chevron,” for women  
of color and advocates to support the goals and aspirations 
of greater diversity and inclusion. With support from the 
Women’s Employee Network, we’re creating podcasts  
to bring awareness and building other forms of recognition  
for Women of Color at Chevron. 
I’ve also been on Finance’s team to create Chevron’s first 
formalized sponsorship program, through which we identify 
individuals who are talented but who may be experiencing 
headwinds in their careers. The 21 sponsored individuals  
will spend a year developing relationships with senior members  
of Finance, who will act as their sponsors. We hope that over 
time, they’ll become individuals who have tailwinds behind 
them in their careers. 
Perhaps my proudest moment came when the Black Employee  
Network named me their 2020 Diversity Ambassador.  
Being Diversity Ambassador means a lot to me. I can help 
impact people’s lives at Chevron in a positive way.
chevron.com/sustainability
28investing in racial equity 
In 2020, Chevron evolved our long-term approach to improve  
racial equity by increasing our support and investment in  
the external education and internal development of Black talent 
and leadership. This approach is in response to a convergence  
of events that include the spread of COVID-19, an economic  
down   turn that led to massive unemployment, and social unrest  
growing out of the death of George Floyd and other Black 
citizens in the United States. These events sparked a movement 
to eliminate systemic racism, racial inequality and economic 
inequality that have disproportionately affected Black Americans 
and other people of color. 
Our racial equity approach includes a $15 million commitment  
that has four pillars: education, job creation, talent and  
leader   ship development, and community and small busi  ness 
partnerships. We are also working to expand our existing  
relation  ships with community, business and educational partners 
such as K–12 science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) organizations and Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities (HBCUs). 
Advancing Black talent and leader development is critical to 
enhancing racial equity within our company. We increased 
leadership development training through our partnership with 
the Executive Leadership Council (ELC) to strengthen the Black 
leadership pipeline. In the second half of 2020, 37 Chevron 
employees participated in ELC leadership development programs. 
And several Black employees who have participated in ELC talent 
development programs have moved into senior positions. 
In 2020, we launched our first formal sponsorship program for 
employees in the Finance function, and we plan to expand similar 
programs across the enterprise. We recognized that informal 
sponsorship does not always include underrepresented talent. 
By creating a formal sponsorship program, we are better able to 
ensure that all employees benefit.
We not only seek to achieve better representation and retention 
of Black employees, but also to increase our workforce’s 
understanding of Black experiences and adopt or revise prac  - 
tices, policies and programs to create greater racial equity.  
For example, the leadership team of Chevron’s Black Employee 
Network sponsored a reverse-mentoring program with our 
Chairman and CEO and some members of his executive leader -ship team to provide a greater understanding of how racial 
injustice perpetuates inequalities for Blacks. These dialogues 
provided senior leaders the opportunity to explore ways to better 
support Black Americans in our workforce and the community. 
Our executive leadership team continues to engage in meetings 
with leaders from our Black Employee Network, HBCUs, and 
other business and professional organizations to gain a greater 
understanding of the experiences of Black people in the workplace 
and in our communities.
Recognizing that data play an important role in understanding  
the recruitment, retention and promotion of our talent, we  
have enhanced our tools and practices to track and report on 
diversity metrics.
employee networks—strengthening our  
culture of inclusion
At a 20th-anniversary celebration of Chevron’s employee  
networks, held in 2020, Chairman and CEO Mike Wirth said,  
“Our 12 employee networks, nearly 20,000-strong and  
40 percent of our workforce, are the lifeblood and driving force  
in strengthening our culture of inclusion.” 
Our employee networks aim to reinforce and strengthen  
Chevron’s commitment to build on our diverse and inclusive  
culture where everyone feels included, valued and purposeful.  
And, in helping everyone reach their full potential, they drive 
business success. 
The networks contribute to Chevron’s culture in three ways:
• By encouraging more meaningful employee engagement, which 
enables individual development and allows the emergence of 
future leaders
• By acting as a resource for attracting and retaining new talent 
and providing formal and informal mentoring and coaching 
to facilitate the transfer of knowledge, skills and experiences 
throughout the company
• By being the crucible of new ideas as technology and a changing 
workforce require new insights and new perspectives
chevron.com/sustainability
28chevron.com/sustainability
2912 networks
20 years
40% of our 
workforce 
~20,000 
employees
Some 2020 initiatives  demonstrate the networks’ contributions  
to Chevron’s culture and success:
• A new program, called Elevate, is patterned after the structure  
of the Women’s Employee Network’s Men Advocating Real 
Change (MARC) program, which created a framework for men 
and women to exchange frank, open dialogue about gender 
equity and headwinds that women face in the workplace.  
Elevate expands that framework beyond gender to include  
many other dimensions of diversity, such as age, ethnicity, 
military veterans and disabilities 
• ENABLED has partnered with our Talent Acquisition and IT 
departments, to establish a neurodiversity program to attract 
talented individuals from the autism community in areas  
such as infrastructure, cybersecurity and data science 
• The XYZ Network launched Extend@Chevron, a pilot pro  - 
gram designed to create solutions for business leaders and  
oppor  tunities for employees by connecting Chevron workers  
to short-term projects aligned with their career goals These initiatives, among others, demonstrate the employee 
networks’ role in supporting Chevron’s culture of innovation, 
encouragement of new ideas, and a recognition that we believe 
diversity and inclusion are vital to the company’s future.
API
Chevron and our colleagues in the American Petroleum 
Institute’s (API’s) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) Member 
Working Group are focused on efforts to further workforce  
and supplier diversity. The group’s DE&I initiatives are designed 
to increase awareness of these issues among API members 
and share best practices. Ultimately, API aims to help increase 
opportunities for diverse suppliers across the industry and 
better recruit and serve minority-skills servers in the oil and 
natural gas industry. API established its DE&I Working Group  
in 2020 to foster increased conversations and accelerate its 
progress to continue driving meaningful change.Above:  Landing page of Chevron’s employee networks on our employee intranet.
chevron.com/sustainability
30social
human rights
In our 2018 report, we shared details about the revised approach 
to Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management  (SEIM), 
highlighting changes that deepened the integration of social  
risks into business units’ risk management process. As part of that 
process, business units are required to regularly update their  
risk profiles. In 2020, more than 10 business units updated their 
risk profiles. The types of risks captured through this process vary 
considerably and can include social and human rights impacts. 
Once a Chevron business unit identifies a risk, it establishes 
management plans to address the risk and prevent or mitigate 
potential impacts. 
Beginning in 2021, Chevron will assess certain of our nonoperated 
joint-venture partners’ processes to manage social impacts  
and stakeholder engagement, including the availability of 
Grievance Mechanisms.
operational-level grievances
In addition to maintaining and updating risk profiles, the SEIM 
process requires business units to design and maintain a Grievance 
Mechanism at the appropriate operational level. In 2020, eight 
business units and other facilities underwent reviews of their 
Grievance Mechanisms to assess the efficacy of the systems and 
identify opportunities for improvement. 
Our processes aim to accord with globally recognized human  
rights standards, such as the UN Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and International Labour Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
a digital solution
We recently updated our Stakeholder Management System  
(SMS), Chevron’s digital tool to manage stakeholder engagements 
and issues. SMS enables our business units to track stakeholder 
engagements, consistently collect and track grievances, and 
enhance cross-functional collaboration on issue management, 
including human rights. The use of SMS and the SEIM process 
supports internal alignment on key issues and improves communi-
cation with leadership about high-priority issues.respect for human rights  
is rooted in our values  
and applies wherever  
we do business
Our Human Rights Policy reflects our commitment  
to getting results the right way. We updated our  
policy in 2019 to more clearly articulate the company’s 
respect for human rights. As described below, we  
have been implementing actions to further incorporate 
that respect into our practices.
chevron.com/humanrights
2018
Added requirement for  
appropriate operations  
to utilize a Grievance  
Mechanism
2019
Human Rights Policy  
updated
2020
More than 10 business  
units update risk profiles;  
8 Grievance-Mechanism  
reviews conductedimplementation in action
chevron.com/sustainability
31chevron.com/sustainability
30other  
business  
partners
We encourage  
our customers and 
business partners  
to respect human  
rights and adhere to  
applicable international 
principles.security
We protect  
personnel and assets 
and provide a secure 
environment for 
business operations.chevron human rights policy
employees
We treat all 
employees with 
respect and dignity, 
and promote diversity 
in the workplace.suppliers
We expect our 
suppliers and 
contractors to respect 
human rights and 
adhere to applicable 
international 
principles.communities
We commit to 
regularly engage 
communities near 
our operational 
and project areas 
in meaningful 
conversations.
focus areas 
We encourage all  
business partners to 
re spect the spirit and 
intent of the following 
Chevron policies and 
statements:
•  Human Rights Policy
•  Indigenous Peoples 
Guidance
•  Statement on Human 
Rights Defenders
•  Guidance related  
to land tenure and 
water rightsfocus areas  
We conduct our 
operations and  
execute projects in 
accordance with the 
Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human 
Rights , which guide 
engagement with 
security providers to 
ensure human rights 
are respected in the 
protection of company 
facilities and premises.focus areas 
We engage with key 
suppliers to reinforce 
awareness of our policies 
and potential human 
rights issues such as:
•  Working and living 
conditions
• Forced labor 
• Child labor 
• Human trafficking
•  Conflict minerals 
sourcing
•  Protecting human 
rights defendersfocus areas 
We engage stakeholders 
on key human rights 
issues in our operating 
areas, including:
•  Indigenous peoples 
•  Resettlement
•  Grievances 
•  Livelihoods 
•  Environmental matters
•  Human rights 
defendersfocus areas
Our company policies 
and procedures adhere 
to all applicable domestic  
laws, and we commit to 
core international labor 
principles, including:
•  Freedom of  
associa  tion and 
collective bargaining
•  Elimination of forced 
or compulsory labor
•  Nondiscrimination in 
the workplace
doing business in conflict-affected areas
We understand the complexity of working in sensitive operating 
areas. We also understand that we can have a positive role in  
the communities where we operate by promoting energy security 
and economic opportunities. The implementation of our Human 
Rights Policy through our core processes and operational activities 
is an important component of our ability to invest and operate 
responsibly in sensitive environments.Chevron regularly engages with key stakeholders to pro  - 
mote responsible investment and respect for human rights.  
In 2020, we helped convene a multi-stakeholder event  
on best practices for companies operating in areas affected  
by conflict. The event brought together cross-sectoral  
expertise for a robust discussion on the role of business in  
areas impacted by conflict. We continue to engage externally   
on the topic through participation in groups such as the  
Global Business Initiative on Human Rights; see next page . 
chevron.com/sustainability
32Mary Feild
Local Content Lead, Operations,  
Australasia Business Unit
employee spotlight
I’ve been with Chevron for more than a decade. The past two 
years have presented a new kind of challenge. 
After the passage of the Australian Modern Slavery Law in 
2018, I became involved in Chevron Australia’s development 
of a methodology to manage the risk of modern slavery  
in relation to our operations and supply chain. At a personal 
level, coming to terms with the gravity of modern slavery  
as a global issue was very unsettling, especially as it raised  
my awareness of the high representation of women and 
children considered at risk around the world. 
We developed a strong cross-functional team to navigate 
the process. We then reviewed publicly available material 
concerning modern slavery risk in the oil and gas sector,  
which helped us identify classes of suppliers who were high-
risk. Mapping this against our supply chain, we identified 
first-tier suppliers and subcontractors from each category, 
and subsequently issued questionnaires to these suppliers to 
understand their risks more closely. 
In February 2021, we completed Chevron Australia’s Modern 
Slavery Statement, which identifies our actions to assess  
and address the risks, guided by Chevron’s principles 
and policies. The statement indicates our plan to conduct 
periodic audits based on a risk-ranking, determined by the 
nature of the work to be performed, and by the responses 
to our questionnaire on supplier policies, processes and 
performance. The statement also stresses the need for us  
to provide training to reinforce respect for human rights 
among our suppliers and employees. 
We recognize the process of protecting against human 
slavery will involve a rigorous journey, but I’m proud  
of Chevron’s culture in enabling us to reach this point in our 
first year of reporting.With the acquisition of Noble Energy in 2020, our portfolio  
has expanded to new geographies. As part of the integration 
process, we continue to adhere to our Human Rights Policy 
and intend to deploy and implement our established policies, 
procedures and systems on human rights, such as security 
processes aligned with the Voluntary Principles on Security  
and Human Rights .
protecting human rights during COVID-19
Chevron’s respect for human rights does not waver in times  
of economic downturns, emergencies or crises such as  
COVID-19. Throughout our response to COVID-19, we have 
identified, addressed and mitigated potential and actual  
impacts of COVID-19, primarily by taking swift action to pro  - 
tect the health and safety of our employees and contractors 
around the world, and by supporting some of the communities  
in which we operate.
The spread of COVID-19 has placed a spotlight on the  
different levels of vulnerability among various racial, ethnic  
and socioeconomic groups. And by being mindful that  
our purpose is to help improve lives, our business units have  
been able to identify vulnerable communities surrounding  
our operations and prioritize them for support. 
For example, Chevron initiated the People-to-People Emergency 
Assistance Project in Kazakhstan to help lessen the impact  
of the pandemic. The project aided medical workers, vulnerable 
groups and migrants and provided job-creation initiatives and 
advisory support to micro- and nano-businesses.GBI 
The Global Business Initiative on Human Rights  (GBI) enables 
representatives of business, including Chevron, to discuss 
relevant human rights concerns with experts in the field, such  
as the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights. 
External engagement with human rights experts, likewise with 
civil society, governments and industry groups, contributes 
to our ability to identify and manage potential impacts in 
adherence to our Human Rights Policy.
chevron.com/sustainability
33chevron.com/sustainability
32social
creating prosperity
we strive to empower  
people around the world  
to improve their lives
Wherever we work, we strive to build lasting  
partner  ships to create prosperity now and into the  
future. By listening to our partners and engaging  
with stake  holders, we localize our programs to help  
meet the needs of each community.
chevron.com/sustainability/
social#creatingprosperityinvesting in education
Equity-forward collaborations
In 2020, Chevron collaborated with DonorsChoose to provide 
teachers and students with resources that promote racial equity 
and increase access to STEM opportunities for Black, Hispanic/
Latinx and Native Americans/Indigenous Peoples. The program 
grows out of our recognition that education will play a critical  
role in combating racial inequity and injustice. Building on our 
existing educational relationship with DonorsChoose, Chevron 
supported teachers and students by doubling donations on 
projects promoting equity, inclusion and anti-racism in select 
locations. The company also tripled donations on STEM projects 
from Black, Hispanic/Latinx and Native American/Indigenous 
Peoples teachers, or projects serving schools with majority Black,  
Hispanic/Latinx and Native American/Indigenous Peoples 
students in select locations. 
generating opportunity 
Collaborating in Colorado
Through collaboration with key stakeholders in our communities, 
Chevron2 aims to help improve the lives of people around the 
world. We rely on building effective relationships to benefit the 
communities in operating areas such as Northern Colorado.  
The company’s support for the Women’s Foundation of Colorado 
(WFCO) enables Chevron to help meet the needs of women and 
families today and propel them toward a more stable future. 
Chevron’s contribution to WFCO’s research, grantmaking, public 
policy, statewide engagement and support for such programs  
as Women Achieving Greater Economic Security, the Women and 
Families of Colorado Relief Fund, and Women & Girls of Color  
Fund has been driven by greater need during the 2020 pandemic. 
Empowering Latina women
Since 2014, the Richmond, California, refinery has been supporting 
the Incubator Project of the Richmond-based Latina Center,  donorschoose
Chevron’s support for social investment is rooted in our 
Chevron Way value of partnership, which dictates that we build 
trusting, mutually beneficial relationships to achieve solutions 
and breakthroughs that benefit our stock  holders and society. 
Through our decade-long relationship with DonorsChoose, 
Chevron has channeled more than $50 million to community 
schools to increase educational access to science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics (STEM) opportunities, espe -
cially for Black, Hispanic/Latinx and Indigenous Americans.
DonorsChoose is a nonprofit that hosts a website that enables 
teachers at U.S. public schools to request books, art supplies, 
technology and other resources they need for the classroom.
$36M+
contributed to U.S. nonprofits 
through a combination of 
employee and retiree giving and 
company matching funds67, 9 92
volunteer hours were  
logged in the United States1,244
charitable organizations in  
the United States benefited  
from volunteer time$350,000+ 
contributed to U.S. nonprofits 
through a combination of  
Noble Energy matching funds 292
volunteer hours were logged  
in the United States  
during Noble Energy programU.S. chevron humankind 2020¹ U.S. noble energy employee match program
1  Noble Energy’s report ran from January 2020 to May 2020 prior to the hold that was placed on the program in advance of the acquisition.  
Chevron numbers are representative of all 2020 volunteer hours and giving related to our 2020 program, which ran from January 1, 2020, to January 31, 2021 .
2  2020 Colorado activities include 2020 activities of Noble Energy, Inc. prior to acquisition .
chevron.com/sustainability
34Karen Rawls
Senior Social Investment Advisor, 
Corporate Affairs
employee spotlight
I have the best job in the world. Managing U.S. corporate 
educational social investment programs gives me the  
chance to work on projects that make a long-term impact 
on so many communities. Internally, I advise our U.S. 
business units, work with the Office of Global Diversity and 
communicate our social investment strategy to the presidents 
of Chevron’s employee networks. Externally, I work with our 
community partners, organizations like DonorsChoose,  
the Fab Foundation and Techbridge Girls, all of which are 
natural fits because they share our values. 
We have opportunities to make a positive impact on the 
communities, especially at a time of crisis such as we’ve been 
having with the pandemic. Some other companies have drawn 
back, but we’ve been consistently in line with our values in 
maintaining our goals. 
Last summer, there were a lot of uncomfortable conversations 
about racial inequities in the United States. We were receiving 
social media posts asking how we were going to make an 
impact. And our leadership was unwavering. Chairman and 
CEO Mike Wirth insisted that education was the natural 
pathway to making a long-term social impact, and he has a 
“reverse mentor” from our Black Employee Network. 
We already had a strong involvement through our support  
for Historically Black Colleges and Universities and our  
K–12 STEM programs. And we stuck to our strategy and our 
core values in introducing a new approach to achieve  
social equity through educational support.
This adherence to our values is a big part of why I’m proud  
to work for Chevron.
which is improving economic self-sufficiency for Latinx women  
and their families. Each year, the project nurtures microenterprises 
for up to 50 Latinx immigrant women to promote empowerment 
and create and sustain jobs in Richmond. 
Latinx are the fastest-growing population in the city of Richmond  
and among the hardest-hit by COVID-19. Latinx are overrepre -
sented in high-risk and low-paying jobs and likely face greater risk 
of exposure to the coronavirus in the workplace than other groups. tengizchevroil and european bank 
for reconstruction and development 
supplier development project
To support the development of Kazakhstani suppliers, our 
Tengizchevroil joint-venture partners work with the European 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development to implement  
a joint supplier development program. The program enables 
potential suppliers to access a diverse range of consulting 
services to build their capacity in quality management  
systems, quality certifications, finances and management 
information systems. 
The program has resulted in:
• Sales increasing by 66 percent in 73 percent of the  
assisted companies
• Employees increasing by 32 percent
• New jobs increasing by 20 percent 
• Productivity per employee increasing by 13 percent 
• Exports reported increasing by two of the 15 companies
The program has demonstrated that through direct capacity 
development and training, local enterprises can show significant 
growth and contribute to our shared prosperity in Kazakhstan.
The independence that comes with financial self-sufficiency is 
even more critical for the communities that the Latina Center 
supports due to the pandemic. Chevron’s aid to the center helps 
deliver transformative leadership and culturally relevant services 
that strengthen vulnerable social support networks, improve 
individual and family health outcomes, and promote economic 
self-sufficiency.
delivering community health
Meeting health needs
Consistent with our support for the health of communities where 
we operate, in 2020 Chevron contributed to several local initiatives 
in Brazil. These initiatives included support for construction of a 
200-bed field hospital in the Gávea area that served COVID-19  
patients from neighboring communities. The company also donated  
5,000 disposable med  ical aprons to meet the high demand at the 
Martagão Gesteira Childcare and Pediatric Institute of the Federal 
University of Rio de Janeiro. In addition, Chevron volunteers raised 
funds to provide the hospi  tal with 1,800 personal hygiene kits to 
distribute to parents accompanying hospitalized children.
chevron.com/sustainability
34chevron.com/sustainability
35sustainable development goals
SDG 3: 
good health  
and well-being
ensure healthy  
lives and promote  
well-being for all  
at all ages
The health of any business 
depends on the well-being of its 
community. For 35 years, Chevron 
has supported HIV/AIDS partners 
and programs to empower 
individuals and communities to 
prevent disease, support health 
system strength, improve health 
equity and security, and build 
prosperous communities. 
One example is our long-standing 
support of the Global Fund to 
Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria and its work in Africa and 
the Pacific Rim. Since 2008, we 
have contributed over $60 million 
to help the organization’s success 
in preventing mother-to-child 
transmission of HIV, reducing new 
HIV infections and improving the 
quality of life for the infected and 
those affected by the disease.
Similarly, we have been involved 
with the International AIDS 
Confer   ence since 2006 and 
have been a sponsor since 2012. 
Again in 2020, we sponsored 
the conference, which was held 
virtually. Its theme of resilience 
resounded for us as we maintain 
our global effort to help educate 
communities, prevent new 
infections, and improve access to 
care and support.SDG 8: 
decent work and  
economic growth
promote sustained,  
inclusive and sus  tain - 
able economic growth,  
full and productive  
employ  ment and  
decent work for all
During the early phase of 
the pandemic, many U.S. 
communities in which we operate 
were especially hard-hit by 
the virus and were short on 
critical supplies. In collaboration 
with the Fab Foundation, we 
funded skilled sewers and other 
community members with the 
goal to manufacture more than 
20,000 masks to help protect 
local citizens. In Houston, we also 
supported the Fab Foundation  
and Connect Community to  
train community members to 
become skilled sewers, enabling 
them not only to produce the 
safety masks but to continue 
receiving a livable wage for  
their professional services.  
This initiative was an extension 
of our collaboration with the 
foundation, which began in 2014 
when we made a $20 million 
commitment to increase STEM 
knowledge and opportunities 
through digital fabrication by 
investing in Fab Labs across the 
United States.SDG 4:
quality  
education
ensure inclusive  
and equitable quality  
education and promote  
lifelong learning  
opportunities for all
Our Richmond, California,  
refinery supports the Hidden 
Genius Project in Richmond,  
which trains and mentors Black 
male youth in technology creation, 
STEM-related entrepreneurship 
and leadership skills to transform 
their lives and communities.  
The program is designed to 
address the dramatic contrast 
between the high unemployment 
of Black male youth and the 
widespread career opportunities 
within the local technology sector.
In 2020, the Chevron-supported 
program was implemented in 
collaboration with the Richmond 
Fab Lab at Kennedy High School 
and the Autodesk Black Network. 
Engineers from Autodesk  
trained the youths in AutoCAD, 
a critical technology linked to 
Chevron’s industry and to wider 
software applications across 
multiple industries.SDG 7:
affordable and  
clean energy
ensure access to  
affordable, reliable,  
sustain  able and  
modern energy for all
In operations around the world, 
we seek innovative ways to 
increase energy efficiency while 
reducing our carbon footprint. 
In Western Australia, Chevron’s 
major liquefied natural gas (LNG) 
Wheatstone Project is helping 
provide residents of the Onslow 
community with affordable, 
reliable and ever-cleaner energy 
through a solar and natural gas–
powered microgrid. Together 
with the Western Australia state 
government, Chevron and its  
joint-venture participants have 
invested in a pilot project that  
will help make Onslow home  
to Australia’s largest distributed 
energy resource microgrid.  
An advanced metering system  
will play an important role in 
making the solar and battery 
components of power genera  - 
tion an affordable option for  
the community.In our effort to help create prosperity wherever we operate, we  
are inspired by the UN Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs),  
which seek to achieve a more sustainable future and make  
progress toward a global 2030 agenda. Chevron touches all  
17 SDGs through our business operations, partnership initiatives 
and social investment opportunities. In focusing on the four  goals discussed below, we stress our recognition of the critical 
need to work with key partners, communities and industry  
groups to make positive contributions to society.
To learn more, visit chevron.com/sustainability/
social#contributingtothesdgs .
chevron.com/sustainability
36getting results the right way
we cultivate a culture of integrity and commit  
ourselves to do things the right and responsible way
Above:  An employee at the GS Caltex refinery complex at Yeosu, Korea. In this section, learn how we approach Health and Safety.
chevron.com/sustainability
37chevron.com/sustainability
36governance
governance
board of directors 
The Chevron Board of Directors  provides oversight of the risk 
management systems that are employed throughout the company.
They regularly consider critical risk topics as part of their 
deliberative decision-making processes. Annually, through 
Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process, they review 
financial, operational, market, political and other risks  
inherent in our business. 
Our Board of Directors is made up of individuals who bring  
diverse experiences and qualities, such as leadership, strategic 
insights and the ability to provide oversight of risk management. 
Their range of expertise spans operations, environmental,  
policy, regulatory and finance. 
Their breadth of experience is reflected in their oversight of 
preparedness and resilience in the face of challenges, such as  
the company experienced in 2020 with the COVID-19 pandemic  
that resulted in a significant decrease in demand for Chevron’s 
products and a precipitous drop in commodity prices.
The Board has four standing committees, all composed entirely of 
independent Directors: the Audit Committee, the Board Nominating 
and Governance Committee, the Management Compensation Com -
mittee, and the Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC). 
Each committee fulfills important responsibilities to assist the 
Board’s oversight of risks and build long-term stockholder value.
executive-level committees
The Executive Committee comprises corporate officers and is  
chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in 
managing the company’s business. 
The Executive Committee has established two subcommittees  
that specialize in various matters important to the company, 
including strategy and compliance. The Enterprise Leadership  
Team is responsible for managing the composition, resource 
allocation and strategic direction of Chevron’s portfolio to achieve 
our objectives. The Global Issues Committee (GIC) oversees  
the development of Chevron’s policies and positions with respect 
to issues of global significance, including climate change, and 
recommends appropriate actions to respond. The GIC receives 
updates from subject matter experts on an array of climate chevron believes that  
strong governance is the 
foundation to creating  
value for our stockholders
We have structures and processes in place to responsibly 
govern our decisions and actions. 
Our Investor Relations, ESG and Sustainability, and  
Cor porate Governance departments are engaging with  
stockholders to discuss operational, financial, gover  n-
ance, executive compen sation, environmental, safety,  
and social and policy issues. 
Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining stock -
holder trust and confidence are core Chevron objectives.
chevron.com/sustainability/governance
board diversity
50%
diversity
42%
women
25%
racially/
ethnically 
diverse
chevron.com/sustainability
38change–related issues, such as carbon policy developments around 
the world, political developments, technological opportunities, 
and stock holder and stakeholder positions. The Vice President, 
Strategy and Sustainability, chairs the GIC and serves as the 
secretary to the PPSC of the Board, connecting the GIC’s work to 
the oversight of the PPSC.
compliance
The Chevron Way forms the foundation of our compliance pro -
gram through its expression of values and expectations for socially 
respon  sible and business conduct. From these overarching 
principles, the Business Conduct and Ethics Code communicates 
specific expectations for ethical business conduct. 
The Business Conduct and Ethics Code  reinforces our compliance 
commitment and the responsibility of each employee to ensure 
Chevron’s activities fully adhere to legal and policy requirements 
everywhere we operate. Chevron maintains internal accounting, 
administrative and operational controls to manage these standards 
of conduct and compliance. We communicate this requirement  
to our business partners through our contractual requirements  
and through ongoing engagement. Suppliers and contractors  
play a vital role in our success and we rely heavily on them to help  
us deliver top-tier business results. At Chevron, it is not only  
about delivering business results, it is about delivering them  
the right way .
Our compliance program addresses detailed compliance require -
ments for many important subjects, including anti-corruption, 
internal controls, international trade, anti-boycott, operational 
excellence, data privacy and competition law. For each subject, 
senior-level Chevron leaders provide risk-based guidance on 
the company’s compliance requirements and training. Chevron 
employees and contractors receive training on Chevron’s  
Business Conduct and Ethics Code every two years. For 2020,  
the enterprisewide completion rate for this training exceeded  
90 percent. Additional computer-based and in-person compliance 
training is also assigned and provided on a scheduled basis. 
Individual business units have ultimate accountability for 
compliance requirements.BPC
Through our membership in the Bipartisan Policy Center  (BPC), 
Chevron participates in deliberative, inclusive and informed 
dialogue on important issues such as energy and environmental 
policy. BPC is a Washington, D.C.–based think tank that actively 
fosters bipartisanship by combining the best ideas from various 
parties to promote sensible solutions. With its strong convening 
ability, BPC assembles different perspectives on challenging 
issues to chart a productive path forward. This approach  
enables Chevron to effectively engage with key stakeholders on 
all points on the political spectrum.
corporate alliance for  
the rule of law
Chevron is a founding member of the Corporate Alliance  
for the Rule of Law  (CAROL), which mobilizes the private sector  
to support, promote and strengthen the rule of law as the 
foundation for social and economic development and the pro  - 
tection of personal freedoms. Several Chevron attorneys  
have worked pro bono with other members to provide their 
collective expertise on a range of projects. Recent ventures have  
included strengthening the capacity and independence of the 
Guatemalan judiciary; conducting workshops for 70 Kenyan 
judges; providing an international perspective to women judges 
in Mexico to improve their decision-making and personal 
advancement; and developing an assessment tool to assist Latin 
American countries in combating corruption.Karen Knutson
Vice President and General Manager, 
Government Affairs
employee spotlight
My team and I are Chevron’s advocates, telling the com  pany’s 
story to a very important audience: policymakers at the  
U.S. federal and state level, as well as talking to international 
governments in Washington, D.C. We want to be the  
honest brokers in the room, with a deep awareness of the 
oppor  tunities and impacts of legislation and regulation,  
and an obligation to support affordable, reliable and  
ever-cleaner energy. And in every conversation, we come 
prepared to focus on climate—it’s the one topic at the top  
of everyone’s list.
Having been on the other side of the table during my years  
of working with the Senate and the White House, I understand 
how we can help policy makers by advocating in a way that 
makes their job easier. This also applies to our international 
work, where we find the U.S. government is interested  
in our perspectives on the countries in which we operate.  
My team works in close concert with our Corporate Affairs 
teams around the world every day.
Above all, our reputation and our trustworthiness as a 
company that doesn’t take shortcuts and that lives by the 
values of The Chevron Way are the most important elements 
of our advocacy work.
chevron.com/sustainability
39chevron.com/sustainability
38climate lobbying report 
In December 2020, we published our first Climate Lobbying  
Report . The report reflects our focus on transparency and desire  
to be responsive to stakeholders’ increasing interest in more  
details about how we conduct our climate lobbying. 
The report explains that our climate lobbying activities are designed  
to support our commitment to deliver afford  able, reliable and  
ever-cleaner energy and help advance the global energy transition. 
The report describes: (1) our energy transition strategy and  
policy framework; (2) how our Board of Directors and manage- 
ment provide oversight on climate lobbying; (3) our direct  
climate lobbying and trade association process; and (4) how our 
key trade associations contribute to and advance the dialogue 
regarding the energy transition.In our 2020 Corporate Sustainability Report , we have provided 
examples of the broad range of issues that Chevron contributes to 
via trade associations and partnerships. 
Collaborating with trade associations across a spectrum of issues 
provides our company access to a range of perspectives and 
creates important opportunities to shape positions that align to 
our corporate values and with the interests of our employees, 
stakeholders and stockholders. 
Trade associations strive to represent the collective point of view 
of the membership. While there are times when our views diverge 
from those of other members, we actively engage with trade 
association partners, believing an open, rigorous examination of 
the issues helps to promote stronger progress for all.lobbying and trade associations
five  
takeaways  
from the climate 
lobbying  
report include >1  
at chevron,  
we are committed  
to compliance, 
transparency and 
accountability in our 
lobbying activities2  
we have executive 
management and board 
oversight of direct 
and indirect lobbying 
activities
3  
we are committed 
to having an honest 
conversation
this means sharing  
our perspective, 
listening to others, 
respecting differences 
and working to find 
solutions4  
our climate lobbying 
activities are designed 
to support our  
commit  ment to deliver 
affordable, reliable  
and ever-cleaner energy  
and help advance the  
global energy transition5  
we rarely agree  
100 percent with  
any trade associations,  
but we believe our 
analysis shows that  
they help advance 
chevron’s view on  
the energy transition
chevron.com/sustainability
40select climate-related positions by major US trade associations
American Chemistry Council (ACC) 
ACC represents U.S. chemical manufacturersACC aims to advocate for a thriving chemical industry, supporting opportunities to use chemistry to  
develop efficient and effective climate change solutions. The trade association advocates for: 1) the goals 
of the Paris Agreement; 2) market-based mechanisms, such as an economywide price on carbon over other 
regulatory systems or command-and-control approaches; 3) carbon leakage protection measures; and  
4) continued investment in research and development and innovative technology, such as renewable energy 
and carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS), to enable significant and cost-effective solutions and 
mitigation actions.
American Fuel & Petrochemical 
Manufacturers (AFPM) AFPM represents 
U.S. petroleum refining and petrochemical 
manufacturing industries  Chevron has engaged with AFPM with the goal of encouraging advocacy for policies that enable members  
to provide the fuels and petrochemicals that society needs in a sustainable way. AFPM’s climate principles 
call for policies that are balanced, measured, transparent, harmonized and economywide.
American Petroleum Institute (API) 
API represents all segments of America’s 
oil and natural gas industry. API is also a 
standards-setting organization that publishes 
and maintains widely accepted standards and 
recommendations for the industryAPI believes that the oil and natural gas industry is part of the global solution to climate change and  
has a vital role to play in developing and deploying technologies and products that continue to reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while advancing economic prosperity. For instance, API created a new 
Climate Committee and has developed new policy positions that support market-based approaches  
and innovation to address climate change. API supports the ambitions of the Paris Agreement. It also 
supports innovation, including reauthorization of the ARPA-E. On methane, API has focused on ensuring 
the EPA’s rule is consistent with the federal Clean Air Act and ensuring that effective state regulations are 
recognized. In 2017, API launched The Environmental Partnership, of which Chevron is a founding member. 
Among its activities, The Environmental Partnership has programs designed to further reduce flaring, 
emissions of methane and volatile organic compounds using cost-effective technologies.
Business Roundtable (BRT) BRT is an 
association of chief executive officers of 
America’s leading companiesBRT believes that corporations should lead by example, support sound public policies and drive innovation 
to address climate change. According to BRT, the U.S. should adopt a more comprehensive, coordinated 
and market-based approach to reducing emissions. In September 2020, BRT established new climate policy 
principles. The BRT’s principles call for economywide carbon pricing as the primary policy tool to address 
climate change, support for innovative technologies such as CCUS, and efficient nonduplicative regulations.
Consumer Energy Alliance (CEA)  CEA 
advocates for various consumer stakeholders 
on energy and environmental issues on  
the regional, state and federal levelsCEA states that energy production and environmental stewardship are not mutually exclusive. CEA is  
focused on advancing policies that consider consumer needs and support technology and innovation.  
CEA supports affordable and reliable energy in all forms.
Independent Petroleum Association of 
America (IPAA) IPAA represents U.S. 
independent oil and natural gas producersIPAA’s stated purpose is to advocate for federal policies that promote the safe development and use of 
American oil and natural gas. IPAA believes well-reasoned, cost-effective steps can be taken to limit  
the generation of GHG emissions. IPAA also supports global cooperation, which it views as essential to  
avoid national adverse economic actions without global GHG benefits.
The National Association of Manufacturers 
(NAM)  The NAM represents small and large 
U.S. manufacturers in various industry sectors 
and advocates pro-manufacturing policiesThe NAM supports the objectives of the Paris Agreement to reduce climate risks. The NAM has called  
for Congressional action on climate policy that achieves meaningful, cost-effective GHG reductions while 
maintaining a strong economy. The NAM’s principles support a level playing field that prevents carbon 
leakage, while maintaining manufacturers’ global competitiveness. The NAM supports innovation and 
technological deployment to help decarbonize manufacturing.
Natural Gas Supply Association (NGSA)
NGSA represents U.S. integrated and 
independent companies that supply natural 
gas, and focuses on producer-marketer issues 
related to the downstream natural gas industryNGSA supports the Paris Agreement and believes the U.S. should remain part of the Agreement. In addition, 
NGSA advocates for economywide carbon pricing and, in the absence of national policy, carbon pricing in 
power markets. For example, NGSA encouraged the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to hold  
a technical conference on carbon pricing, and NGSA participated in that September 2020 FERC conference. 
On methane, NGSA supports cost-effective methane policies and regulations. NGSA is committed to reducing 
methane emissions and improving the quality of methane data to achieve greater transparency.
United States Council for International 
Business (USCIB)  USCIB promotes a  
variety of business views across multiple 
sectors to the U.S. government and to 
international policy makersUSCIB’s priorities include advancing global climate action alongside energy security, innovation and climate 
resilience. Related to its priorities, USCIB supports the Paris Agreement and believes the U.S. should remain 
part of the Agreement. USCIB principles recognize carbon pricing as an important climate policy tool, and 
USCIB seeks opportunities to design international climate cooperation that works with markets to encourage 
companies in all sectors to integrate climate mitigation into their activities, supply and value chains.
U.S. Chamber of Commerce (U.S. Chamber)
The U.S. Chamber develops and implements 
policy on major issues affecting U.S. businesses 
of all sizes across many sectors of the economyThe U.S. Chamber believes that the U.S. should be a world leader in climate change science and technologies. 
In November 2019, the U.S. Chamber announced its support for U.S. participation in the Paris Agreement. 
The U.S. Chamber also emphasizes the importance of market-based approaches, efficiency and resilient 
infrastructure in addressing climate change. The U.S. Chamber supports innovation-related legislation, and 
the phasedown of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). It is also working on a path forward on light-duty vehicle fuel 
economy and GHG standards that provide regulatory certainty, continue progress on mileage and emissions 
reductions, and preserve a unified national program for vehicle sales.
Western States Petroleum Association 
(WSPA ) WSPA is a nonprofit trade association 
that represents companies involved in 
petroleum exploration, production, refining, 
transportation and marketing, in the five 
western states of Arizona, California, Nevada, 
Oregon and WashingtonWSPA works to support development of the energy the world needs, while addressing concerns associated 
with climate change. WSPA recommends, for states considering climate policies, that market-based 
approaches can help balance the need to achieve GHG emissions targets while reducing the economic  
impact on families, consumers and the economy. 
chevron.com/sustainability
40chevron.com/sustainability
41governance
health and safety
Our strong safety record reflects the evolution of  
our Operational Excellence Management System  (OEMS), 
established in 2004 and updated in 2018, to manage  
health, safety and environmental risks. The OEMS enables  
us to systematically manage risk, implement and assure 
safeguards, and foster a culture of learning.
supporting physical and emotional well-being
2020 presented unprecedented pandemic-related health and  
well-being risks. While many of our employees were able to  
work remotely, others continued working onsite to keep our 
operations running safely. As stressors increased during the 
pandemic, Chevron connected employees with programs  
that support physical and emotional well-being to cope with  
the many challenges posed by COVID-19.
With up to 90 percent of our office-based employees shifting  
to remote work, demand for Chevron’s Repetitive Stress  
Injury Prevention services increased, and ergonomic solutions  
were needed to respond to a change in work environments.  
Our Global Health and Medical ergonomic teams utilized 
technology to provide ergo evaluations and assistance for 
more than 6,300 Chevron U.S. employees, using a variety 
of communications channels and digital images of at-home 
workstations. Ergonomic evaluation support was extended  
to an 18-hour window each day to accommodate Chevron 
employees around the world. 
As our workers experienced increasing stress in balancing  
work-life issues and other pressures, the company encouraged 
employees to utilize our suite of wellness programs that  
provide mental health and wellness resources, a substance  
abuse program, and new app-based resilience tools. Our long-
standing Employee Assistance Program, now in its 51st year, 
offered a range of virtual programs for our employees and their 
families, including art contests, music classes, mindfulness  
and yoga instruction, storytelling sessions, and comic strips. 
Employees experiencing emotional issues were able to utilize 
meQuilibrium, an engaging resilience app that coaches employees 
on managing stress, overcoming negative thinking and making 
healthy lifestyle choices.we work to improve the 
health and safety of  
our workforce through our 
policies, programs  
and actions
We are committed to our culture of Operational 
Excellence (OE) and continually work to improve our  
OE performance by eliminating serious injuries and 
fatalities, and by learning from our incidents. We believe 
the more effectively we work on safety, the less often  
we will need to respond to an incident or potential injury 
involving our colleagues.
chevron.com/sustainability/governance#  
pursuingoperationalexcellence
up to
90%
up to 90 percent of our  
office-based employees shifted  
to remote work in 2020
chevron.com/sustainability
42applying technology for safer, faster results
During the pandemic, a key safeguard was physical distancing, 
particularly important for our offshore and seagoing workforce,  
who live and work together for extended periods. Advances 
in digital technologies enabled us to conduct remote audits to 
assess safe operations in our facilities, while keeping our workers 
physically distanced.
We recognized the potential for conducting remote audit and 
assurance activities in early 2020 and began pilot testing at our 
Blind Faith Platform in the Gulf of Mexico. By year-end, we had 
completed corporate audits in our Upstream, Midstream and 
Downstream U.S. businesses, and had developed a fully remote 
2021 audit schedule including several international locations. 
Our safety team utilizes a variety of technologies to conduct 
remote audits, including Microsoft Teams, ® smartphones,  
tablets and HoloLens. Microsoft’s HoloLens is a headset that 
operates as a fully self-contained holographic computer. Coupled 
with Microsoft Dynamics 365® Remote Assist, ™ the technology  
provides a remote view of operations that allows auditors to verify 
safeguards as if they were onsite, maintaining a high standard  
of compliance without introducing the risk of additional personnel. 
Chevron is continuing to evaluate products and technology to  
help us assess and promote our OE culture. 
IOGP
As a member of the International Association of Oil and  
Gas Producers (IOGP), we recognize the importance  
of collaborating on a wide range of industry initiatives that 
support our business objectives. Through our work as part 
of IOGP’s Safety Committee, we helped develop a set of 
Life-Saving Rules . Published in 13 languages, these rules 
provide industry workers with actions they can take to 
protect themselves and their colleagues from serious injuries 
and fatalities. These rules complement Chevron’s thorough 
guidelines on safe workplace procedures. 
We also participated in the development of Process Safety  
Fundamentals , a companion approach to helping our work -
force identify process safety risks. Adoption of these programs 
can be particularly helpful to oil and gas service company 
personnel who work for a variety of operators and benefit from 
standardization and consistency in our approach to workforce 
and process safety.Janis Davis-Street
Manager, Global Public  
Health and Special Projects 
employee spotlight
Before joining Chevron in 2006, I worked as a researcher at 
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, where 
I helped develop nutritional requirements for astronauts 
coping with isolation and stress while in space. This proved to 
be good training for my work at Chevron, where I am helping 
to influence the health and well-being of a global workforce.  
It has been very motivating to influence the well-being of  
our workforce who live and work on offshore rigs, which can 
be as isolating as space travel in its own way. 
As a trained nutritionist, my first assignment at Chevron  
was helping employees develop healthy eating habits to 
combat illnesses such as heart disease, the No.1 killer in the 
United States and much of the world. Each assignment  
since then has inspired me and made me proud to work for  
a company that cares so much about people’s physical  
and emotional well-being. 
An exciting part of my journey has involved Chevron’s  
focus on Human Performance factors, such as fatigue and 
stress, as targets for influencing individual well-being.  
That focus has continued in my new position, which I began  
in October 2020, where I continue to concentrate on  
resilience and psychological well-being as one of the key 
factors in operating safely and productively. After all the 
challenges we faced in the past year, resilience is now  
even more critical for us to maintain.
product stewardship:  
chemicals in products
Chevron Oronite Company LLC, or Oronite , the company’s 
additives and specialty chemicals business, adheres to an 
internal policy to place new products on the market that, 
when possible and without compromising safety or reliability, 
do not contain more than 0.1 percent (w/w, per weight) of a 
given priority substance. Priority substances include those, 
for example, that are known to be carcinogenic; reprotoxic; 
mutagenic; or persistent, bio-accumulative and toxic (PBT). 
Oronite routinely evaluates opportunities to reduce or eliminate 
priority substances from the company’s product lines.
chevron.com/sustainability
43chevron.com/sustainability
42expansion of ePTW
Electronic Permit-to-Work (ePTW) is a digital tool that replaces 
manual, paper-intensive processes required for routine and  
high-risk maintenance operations. In 2019, the HSE Workforce 
Safety Team collaborated with software provider Enablon to 
configure their software tool for our work processes. The pilot 
version of ePTW supported permit and isolation workflows  
across multiple permit types. The primary objective of Chevron’s 
ePTW deployment is an enhanced focus on safeguard verification. 
By reducing the administrative burden associated with permitting 
work, there is more time for robust hazard analysis development 
and review, and safeguard verification. An unexpected but 
notable benefit during the pandemic has been ePTW’s ability to 
support physical distancing of the workforce. In 2020, our ePTW 
technology was expanded to 12 new sites, in addition to the 
initial three sites piloted in 2019. New software releases provided 
additional enhancements, including integration with maintenance 
manage  ment systems and improved identification of potential  
risks and available safeguards. The tool was also made available  
in four additional languages to support our global operations.
As a result of travel restrictions driven by the pandemic, the  
ePTW team pivoted to a virtual train-the-trainer approach to 
enable business unit employees to deliver training. Deployment  
to additional sites will continue through 2021 and beyond,  
with ongoing software releases for continued enhancement.
enhancing our process safety culture
It is important to understand the effectiveness of our process 
safety procedures and programs at all levels of the organization. 
Are they producing the desired effects? Are risks identified  
and well understood? Are safeguards in place and functioning  
as intended? Are there signs or weak signals that need to  
be addressed?
The systems to manage process safety are complex, and it  
takes people with skills in a wide variety of disciplines  
working together to keep our safeguards strong and effective.  
For this reason, we created a guide designed to help leaders  
more effectively engage employees and contractors in the 
essential process safety elements, to build and sustain a culture 
where we rigorously apply established practices with a keen  
eye to recognize and respond to warning signs.The guide is targeted at supervisors with responsibility and 
accountability for specific process safety elements and provides 
planning questions, expectations, warning signs and suggested 
reviews to help supervisors understand more deeply how each 
topic area is addressed within their business. When facility leaders 
set aside time on a regular basis to address process safety issues  
in an honest, thoughtful manner, it sends a clear message to  
all employees that process safety is important. By encouraging  
our supervisors and their teams to ask the right questions  
every time they approach a task, we believe we can maintain  
our focus and strengthen our process safety culture.
enforcing greater road safety
Motor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of death in every 
industry group. In Chevron, we have set rigorous OE standards for 
transportation safety and consistently seek ways to ensure that  
we meet these standards. 
In March 2019, Chevron committed to only purchase, lease and 
contract 5-Star New Car Assessment Program (NCAP)–rated 
vehicles. This rating measures the crashworthiness of light vehicles 
and is based on factors such as front- and side-impact crash 
testing, as well as rollover resistance testing. Research indicates 
that by using only 5-Star cars, we can lower the risk of a fatal injury 
by 68 percent compared to 2-Star-rated vehicles, and by about  
12 percent compared to 4-Star-rated vehicles. 
Our commitment to purchase 5-Star vehicles when existing 
Chevron fleet vehicles are replaced, to update contract language, 
to work with our rental car partners, and to review options with 
ride-share companies will take several years to fully implement.
chevron.com/sustainability
44performance and data
we demonstrate our commitment to transparency by  
reporting metrics and performance data annually
Above:  An earth scientist in our reservoir modelling group in Houston, Texas. In this section, learn about our performance.
chevron.com/sustainability
45chevron.com/sustainability
44chevron.com/sustainability
46these tables include our environmental,  
safety and social performance data*
To create customized charts and tables using our performance data,  
visit chevron.com/sustainability/performance/chart-generator .
We demonstrate our commitment to transparency by reporting 
metrics and performance data annually so we can hold ourselves 
responsible for our progress and our stakeholders can hold  
us accountable. 
We consider the reporting guidelines, indicators and terminology  
in the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas  
Industry  (2020) by the International Petroleum Industry Environ -
mental Conservation Association (IPIECA), the International Oil  
and Gas Producers (IOGP) Association and the American Petroleum 
Institute (API), as well as other leading reporting frameworks,  
to determine which data to include in the table. The content for  
this table and the larger report was identified through issue-  
prioritization processes and engagements with both internal and 
external stakeholders.Beginning in the 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report , we  
enhanced our reporting by aligning our performance data  
table with the recommendations of the Sustainable Accounting  
Standards Board (SASB) voluntary framework, as reflected in  
the SASB index. This enhancement to our environmental, social  
and governance (ESG) reporting helps provide comparable and 
decision-useful information for investors and other stakeholders.  
In addition, we have indicated where our data relate to the  
core Stakeholder Capitalism  metrics developed by the World 
Economic Forum (WEF).
We have also disclosed our ESG data, including greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions data, in the IHS Markit ESG Reporting Repository 
to enable investors and other stakeholders to efficiently compare 
ESG data across sectors and reporting frameworks.
equations for environmental tables
chevron’s equity GHG intensity, kilograms CO 2e/boe
upstream oil intensity
Direct emissions  
(Scope 1)Indirect emissions associated  
with imported electricity  
and steam (Scope 2)
Net production of liquidsEmissions associated  
with exported electricity  
and steam+ – ( )
Allocated to liquids on a  
production basis (boe)
Allocated to gas on a 
production basis (boe)Direct emissions  
(Scope 1)Indirect emissions associated  
with imported electricity  
and steam (Scope 2)
Net production of gas (including LNG and GTL)Emissions associated  
with exported electricity  
and steam+ – ( )
upstream gas intensity
upstream flaring intensity
Direct flaring emissions as CO 2e (Scope 1)
Net production of liquids and gas (including LNG and GTL)
upstream methane intensity
Direct methane emissions as CO 2e (Scope 1)
Net production of liquids and gas (including LNG and GTL)
 LNG = liquefied natural gas GTL = gas-to-liquid
* Year 2020 performance data reflect varying impacts from changing market conditions and COVID-19.performance dataperformance and datachevron.com/sustainability
47chevron.com/sustainability
46equity emissions a, 1
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
Upstream production net emissions intensity  
(kilograms CO 2e/boe) 2 CCE4: C4
Oil intensity   41.9  36.8  37.0  33.3 28.3
Gas intensity   32.6  35.0  34.7  30.4 26.8
Flaring intensity  8.7 7.2 6.3  4.7 3.9
Methane intensity   4.5  3.3  2.8 2.4 2.0
direct GHG emissions (Scope 1)  d, 3, 4, 5, 6
direct GHG emissions (Scope 1)  
(million tonnes CO 2e) w64  63  66  62 54CCE4:  
C1/A1
Upstream (million tonnes CO 2e)  35  35  37  35 30 EM-EP-110a.1 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes)  30 31  34  32 27
CH 4 (million tonnes CH 4) 7 0.17  0.13  0.12 0.11 0.09
CH 4 (million tonnes CO 2e)  7 4.3  3.3  3.0 2.7 2.3
Other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e)  0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Midstream (million tonnes CO 2e)  2 2 2 1 1EM-MD-110a.1 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) 1 2 2 1 1
CH 4 (million tonnes CH 4) 7<0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01
CH 4 (million tonnes CO 2e) 7<0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
Other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
Downstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 821 21 20 19 18 EM-RM-110a.1 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) 21 20 20 19 18
CH 4 and other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Chemicals (million tonnes CO 2e) 95 5 5 5 4 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) 5 5 5 5 4
CH 4 and other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
Other (million tonnes CO 2e) 102 1 2 1 1  CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) 2 1 2 1 1
CH 4 and other GHG  (million tonnes CO 2e) <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
footnotes are on pages 60 – 61equity emissions table continues on page 48  Indicates restatement of data.chevron.com/sustainability
48equity emissions, a, 1 cont.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
select breakdowns of GHG emissions w
Upstream flaring (million tonnes CO 2e) 118 7 7 5 4 EM-EP-110a.2 CCE7: C4
CO 2 (million tonnes) 7 7 6 5 4
CH 4 (million tonnes CH 4) 70.03 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.01
CH 4 (million tonnes CO 2e) 70.8 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.3
Other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
Volume of flares (MMSCF)  130,000  110,000  100,000  70,000  60,000 CCE7: A1
Emissions associated with exported electricity  
and steam (million tonnes CO 2e) 12 1 1 1 1 1CCE4:  
C3/A6
Upstream (million tonnes CO 2e) <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Midstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 0 0 0 0 0
Downstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 8<1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Chemicals (million tonnes CO 2e) 90 0 0 0 0
Other (million tonnes CO 2e) 101 1 1 1 <1
indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) d, 13
indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2)  
(million tonnes CO 2e) w3  3 3 2 4CCE4:  
C2/C3
Upstream (million tonnes CO 2e)  1 1 1 1 1
Midstream (million tonnes CO 2e)  <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Downstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 82 1 1 1 1
Chemicals (million tonnes CO 2e) 9<1 <1 <1 <1 1
Other (million tonnes CO 2e) 10<1 <1 <1 <1 <1
CO 2 sales, storage, purchase or injection  
(million tonnes CO 2e)CCE3: A6
Sales or storage of company CO 2 (million tonnes CO 2e) 14<1 <1 <1 1 2
Purchase or injection of third-party CO 2 (million tonnes CO 2e) 151 1 1 1 1
offsets
Offsets purchased/developed outside the inventory boundary 
and retired by company (million tonnes CO 2e) 16 4 4 3 1 2
Offsets developed within the inventory boundary and  
sold/transferred to third parties (million tonnes CO 2e) 17 <1 <1 <1 <1 —
footnotes are on pages 60 – 61equity emissions table continues on page 49  Indicates restatement of data.chevron.com/sustainability
48chevron.com/sustainability
49equity emissions, a, 1 cont.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
indirect GHG emissions – all other (Scope 3) 18CCE4: A2
Use of sold products – production method  
(million tonnes CO 2e)364 377 396 412 412
Use of sold products – throughput method  
(million tonnes CO 2e) 355  365  380  382 372
Use of sold products – sales method (million tonnes CO 2e) 598 613 628 639 583
third-party verification 19
Assurance level Limited Limited Limited LimitedAnticipated 
to be  
limited  20
Assurance provider ERM CVS ERM CVS ERM CVS ERM CVS ERM CVS
footnotes are on pages 60 – 61 Indicates restatement of data.chevron.com/sustainability
50footnotes are on pages 60 – 61operated emissions table continues on page 51operated emissions a, 1
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) d, w, 3
direct GHG emissions (Scope 1)  
(million tonnes CO 2e) 66  67  68  63 56CCE4:  
C1/A1
Upstream (million tonnes CO 2e)   46  47  49  45 40 EM-EP-110a.1 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) 39  42  44  42 37
CH 4 (million tonnes CH 4) 7 0.24  0.19  0.17 0.14 0.12
CH 4 (million tonnes CO 2e) 7 6.1  4.8  4.2 3.4 3.0
Other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1
Midstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 2 2 2 1 1EM-MD-110a.1 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) 1 2 2 1 1
CH 4 (million tonnes CH 4) 7<0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01
CH 4 (million tonnes CO 2e) 7<0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
Other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
Downstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 816 16 15 14 14 EM-RM-110a.1 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) 16 16 15 14 14
CH 4 and other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Chemicals (million tonnes CO 2e) 9<1 <1 <1 <1 <1 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
CH 4 and other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
Other (million tonnes CO 2e) 102 1 2 1 1 CCE4: C3
CO 2 (million tonnes) 2 1 2 1 1
CH 4 and other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
select breakdowns of GHG emissions
Upstream flaring (million tonnes CO 2e) 1115 13 11 9 7 EM-EP-110a.2 CCE7: C4
CO 2 (million metric tons) 13 12 10 8 6
CH 4 (million tonnes CH 4) 70.06 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.02
CH 4 (million tonnes CO 2e) 71.6 1.1 0.9 0.7 0.5
Other GHG (million tonnes CO 2e) <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1
Volume of flares (MMSCF)    230,000  200,000  170,000 130,000  110,000 CCE7: A1
 Indicates restatement of data.chevron.com/sustainability
51chevron.com/sustainability
50footnotes are on pages 60 – 61operated emissions, a, 1 cont.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
select breakdowns of GHG emissions, cont.
Emissions associated with exported electricity  
and steam (million tonnes CO 2e) w, 12 1 1 1 1 1CCE4:  
C3/A6
Upstream (million tonnes CO 2e) <1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Midstream (million tonnes CO 2e)  0 0 0 0 0
Downstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 8<1 <1 <1 <1 <1
Chemicals (million tonnes CO 2e) 90 0 0 0 0
Other (million tonnes CO 2e) 101 1 1 1 <1
indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) d, w, 13
indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2)  
(million tonnes CO 2e)2 2 2 1 1CCE4:  
C2/C3
Upstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 1 1 1 1 1
Midstream (million tonnes CO 2e)  <1  <1  <1  <1 <1
Downstream (million tonnes CO 2e) 81 1 1 <1 <1
Chemicals (million tonnes CO 2e) 9 <1  <1  <1  <1 <1
Other (million tonnes CO 2e) 10<1 <1 <1 <1 <1
CO 2 sales, storage, purchase or injection CCE3: A6
Sales or storage of company CO 2 (million tonnes CO 2e) 14— <1 <1 1 3
Purchase or injection of third-party CO 2 (million tonnes CO 2e) 151 1 1 1 1
offsets
Offsets purchased/developed outside the inventory boundary 
and retired by company (million tonnes CO 2e) 16 4 4 3 1 2
Offsets developed within the inventory boundary and  
sold/transferred to third parties (million tonnes CO 2e) 17 0 0 0 0 0
indirect GHG emissions – all other (Scope 3) 18CCE4: A2
Use of sold products – production method  
(million tonnes CO 2e) 539 608 617 622 588
Use of sold products – throughput method  
(million tonnes CO 2e)  341  386  406  411 392
 Indicates restatement of data.chevron.com/sustainability
52footnotes are on pages 60 – 61environmental performance a, e
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
energy efficiency  CCE6
Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated 
joint-venture refineries (trillion BTUs)  830  833  928  910  851 CCE6: C1
Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated 
joint-venture refineries (million gigajoules)  876  879  980  960  898 CCE6: C1
Total energy consumption, operated assets (trillion BTUs)  671  677  766  752  700 CCE6: C1
Total energy consumption, operated assets  
(million gigajoules) 708  715  808  794  739 CCE6: C1
Manufacturing Energy Index (Refining) 21 85  85  85  85  88 CCE6: A4
Upstream Energy Intensity (thousand BTUs per barrel of  
oil-equivalent)  312  315  358  362  340 CCE6: A2
Pipeline Energy Intensity (BTUs per barrel of  
oil-equivalent-mile) 22  20  13  10  8  10 CCE6: A2
Shipping Energy Intensity (BTUs per metric ton–mile)  43  70  75  70  69 CCE6: A2
Non-Manufacturing Energy Index 23 75  75  74  67  71 CCE6: A3
air quality 24ENV5
Total volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted  
(thousand metric tons)  150  142  115  102 81EM-EP-120a.1  
EM-MD-120a.1  
EM-RM-120a.1ENV5: C1
Total sulfur oxides (SO X) emitted (thousand metric tons) 66 52 40 36 41EM-EP-120a.1  
EM-MD-120a.1  
EM-RM-120a.1ENV5: C1
Total nitrogen oxides (NO X) emitted (thousand metric tons) 148 147  141  130 112EM-EP-120a.1  
EM-MD-120a.1  
EM-RM-120a.1ENV5: C1
water management
water withdrawn 25ENV1
Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters)  80  72 71  70 63 ENV1: C1
Upstream 35 33 31 33 28 EM-EP-140a.1
Refining 2642 36 37 34 33 EM-RM-140a.1
Other 273 3 3 3 2
Nonfresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 36 41 39 45 34 ENV1: A4
Upstream 15 22 21 27 17
Refining 2618 18 16 17 17
Other 273 1 2 1 <1
environmental performance table continues on page 53  Indicates restatement of data.chevron.com/sustainability
52chevron.com/sustainability
53footnotes are on pages 60 – 61environmental performance,  a, e cont.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
water withdrawn, 25 cont. ENV1
Fresh water withdrawn intensity ENV1: A2
Upstream (barrel of water per barrel of oil-equivalent) 28— 0.14 0.12 0.14 0.11 ENV1: A2
Refining (barrel of water per barrel of oil-equivalent  
as feedstock) 29 — 0.52 0.55 0.53 0.57 ENV1: A2
Fresh water consumed (million cubic meters) 79  71 70  69 62 EM-EP-140a.1 ENV1: C2
wastewater 30ENV2
Average oil concentration in discharges to surface water  
(parts per million)EM-EP-140a.2
Upstream 9 8 7 8 7 ENV2: C1
Refining 261 1 1 1 1 ENV2: C2
Total amount of oil discharged to surface water  
(thousand metric tons)EM-EP-140a.1
Upstream 1.2 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.5 ENV2: C1
Refining 260.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03 ENV2: C2
accidental release prevention and response 31ENV6
Petroleum spills to land and water (volume in  
thousand barrels)0.36 1.46 1.02 0.79 0.94EM-EP-160a.2  
EM-MP-160a.4ENV6: C2
Total volume recovered  0.20 1.15  0.84 0.64 0.60EM-EP-160a.2  
EM-MP-160a.4ENV6: A1
Petroleum spills to land and water (number of spills)  49 56 60  51 45EM-EP-160a.2  
EM-MP-160a.4ENV6: C2
waste 32ENV7
Hazardous waste generated (million metric tons) 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.2 EM-EP-150a.1 ENV7: C3
Hazardous waste disposed of (million metric tons) 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 ENV7: C3
Hazardous waste recycled, reused or recovered  
(million metric tons)0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 EM-EP-150a.1 ENV7: C3
fines and settlements 33
Number of environmental, health and safety fines paid and 
settlements entered into, equity basis  82  89 64  104 45
Cost of environmental, health and safety fines paid and 
settlements entered into, equity basis (millions of dollars)  $6.8 $40.5 $9.1 $16.1 $3.0
 Indicates restatement of data.chevron.com/sustainability
54U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics  d, w, 34
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
Total employees: women (%) 30 30 31 30 30 SOC5: C2
Total employees: ethnic minorities (%) 38 39 41 41 41 SOC5: C2
Caucasian 62 61 59 59 59 SOC5: C2
Women 15 15 15 14 14 SOC5: C2
Men 47 46 45 45 45 SOC5: C2
Asian 13 13 14 14 14 SOC5: C2
Women 5 5 5 5 5 SOC5: C2
Men 8 8 9 9 9 SOC5: C2
Latino 14 15 16 16 16 SOC5: C2
Women 6 6 6 6 6 SOC5: C2
Men 8 9 9 10 10 SOC5: C2
Black 8 8 8 8 8 SOC5: C2
Women 3 4 4 4 3 SOC5: C2
Men 5 5 5 5 5 SOC5: C2
Other Ethnicities 353 3 3 3 3 SOC5: C2
Women 1 1 1 1 1 SOC5: C2
Men 2 2 2 2 2 SOC5: C2
Executives and senior managers: women (%) 18 19 22 24 26 SOC5: C2
Executives and senior managers: ethnic minorities (%) 13 16 19 22 24 SOC5: C2
Caucasian 87 84 81 78 76 SOC5: C2
Women 14 15 16 17 19 SOC5: C2
Men 72 69 65 61 57 SOC5: C2
Asian 6 7 9 10 12 SOC5: C2
Women 2 2 3 3 4 SOC5: C2
Men 4 5 6 7 8 SOC5: C2
Latino 4 5 6 6 8 SOC5: C2
Women 1 1 1 2 2 SOC5: C2
Men 3 4 5 4 6 SOC5: C2
Black 3 3 3 4 4 SOC5: C2
Women 1 1 1 2 2 SOC5: C2
Men 2 2 2 2 2 SOC5: C2
footnotes are on pages 60 – 61U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics table continues on page 55chevron.com/sustainability
55chevron.com/sustainability
54U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics,    d, w, 34 cont.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
Executives and senior managers: ethnic minorities (%), cont. 13 16 19 22 24 SOC5: C2
Other Ethnicities 350 1 1 1 1 SOC5: C2
Women 0 0 0 0 0 SOC5: C2
Men 0 0 1 1 0 SOC5: C2
First- and mid-level managers: women (%) 29 29 30 31 30 SOC5: C2
First- and mid-level managers: ethnic minorities (%) 30 32 33 34 35 SOC5: C2
Caucasian 70 68 67 66 65 SOC5: C2
Women 17 16 16 16 16 SOC5: C2
Men 52 52 50 50 50 SOC5: C2
Asian 12 12 12 12 12 SOC5: C2
Women 4 5 5 5 5 SOC5: C2
Men 7 7 8 7 7 SOC5: C2
Latino 11 12 12 12 14 SOC5: C2
Women 4 5 6 6 6 SOC5: C2
Men 7 7 7 7 8 SOC5: C2
Black 6 7 7 8 7 SOC5: C2
Women 2 3 3 3 3 SOC5: C2
Men 4 4 4 4 4 SOC5: C2
Other Ethnicities 352 1 1 2 2 SOC5: C2
Women 0 0 1 1 1 SOC5: C2
Men 1 1 1 1 1 SOC5: C2
Professionals: women (%) 33 33 33 33 34 SOC5: C2
Professionals: ethnic minorities (%) 35 35 36 38 39 SOC5: C2
Caucasian 65 65 64 62 61 SOC5: C2
Women 18 18 18 18 18 SOC5: C2
Men 47 47 46 45 43 SOC5: C2
Asian 16 16 16 16 17 SOC5: C2
Women 6 7 7 7 7 SOC5: C2
Men 9 9 9 9 10 SOC5: C2
Latino 10 11 11 12 12 SOC5: C2
Women 4 4 4 4 4 SOC5: C2
Men 6 7 7 8 8 SOC5: C2
footnotes are on pages 60 – 61U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics table continues on page 56chevron.com/sustainability
56U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics,    d, w, 34 cont.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
Professionals: ethnic minorities (%), cont. 35 35 36 38 39 SOC5: C2
Black 7 7 7 7 7 SOC5: C2
Women 4 4 4 4 4 SOC5: C2
Men 4 4 4 4 4 SOC5: C2
Other Ethnicities 352 2 2 2 3 SOC5: C2
Women 1 1 1 1 1 SOC5: C2
Men 1 1 1 2 2 SOC5: C2
footnotes are on pages 60 – 61global employee diversity w, 34, 36
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
Regular employees 51,953 48,456 45,047 44,679 42,628
Service station employees 3,248 3,298 3,591 3,476 5,108 SOC5: C2
U.S. employees 23,418 22,048 21,465 22,165 20,814 SOC5: C2
Union-represented U.S. employees (%) 3711 11 11 11 12 SOC5: C2
Total regular employees – women (%) 24 25 25 25 25 SOC5: C2
Mid-level management – women (%) 3718 19 19 20 22 SOC5: C3
Senior leadership – women (%) 3716 18 19 19 20 SOC5: C3
Executive leadership – women (%) 3714 14 16 15 16 SOC5: C3
Senior and executive leadership – women and  
minority men (%) 37 31 34 36 38 40 SOC5: C3
supply chain w, 38 
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
Total goods and services spending (billions of dollars) $27.3 $24.8 $25.1 $27.1  $20.9 
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based businesses 
(billions of dollars)$10.7 $11.2 $11.6 $13.2  $11.0 SOC14: A1
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based small 
businesses (billions of dollars)$1.7 $1.6 $1.7 $1.7  $1.3 SOC14: A1
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based woman-  
and minority-owned businesses (billions of dollars)$0.5 $0.6 $0.7 $0.6  $0.4 SOC14: A1chevron.com/sustainability
56chevron.com/sustainability
57workforce health and safety a, 39
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
Total Recordable Incident Rate  
(incidents per 200,000 work-hours) wEM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2SHS3: C1
Workforce (excluding COVID-19) 0.14 0.13 0.13 0.15 0.13
Employees (excluding COVID-19) 0.10 0.09 0.07 0.13 0.11EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2
Contractors (excluding COVID-19) 0.16 0.15 0.15 0.16 0.14EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2
Workforce (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable0.37
Employees (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable0.42
Contractors (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable0.35
Lost-Time Incident Frequency (Days Away From Work  
incidents and fatalities per million work-hours)SHS3: C1
Workforce (excluding COVID-19) 0.10 0.09 0.08  0.10 0.13
Employees (excluding COVID-19) 0.10 0.08 0.07 0.17 0.13
Contractors (excluding COVID-19) 0.11 0.10 0.08  0.08 0.13
Workforce (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable1.26
Employees (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable1.65
Contractors (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable1.11
Days Away From Work Rate  
(incidents per 200,000 work-hours)SHS3: C1
Workforce (excluding COVID-19)  0.017 0.016 0.016  0.019 0.025
Employees (excluding COVID-19) 0.018 0.012 0.013 0.033 0.023
Contractors (excluding COVID-19) 0.016  0.017 0.017  0.014 0.026
Workforce (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable0.252
Employees (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable0.328
Contractors (including COVID-19)not  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicablenot  
applicable0.223
Number of serious injuries 40
Workforce 20 26 35 13 13
Employees 3 2 3 2 3
Contractors 17 24 32 11 10
Number of work-related fatalities wEM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2SHS3: C1
Workforce 10 6 0 2 1
Employees 1 2 0 0 1EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2
Contractors 9 4 0 2 0EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2
footnotes are on pages 60 – 61workforce health and safety table continues on page 58  Indicates restatement of data.chevron.com/sustainability
58footnotes are on pages 60 – 61workforce health and safety, a, 39 cont.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020  SASB bIPIECA c
Work-related fatal accident rate (work-related employee or 
contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours) wEM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2SHS3: C1
Workforce 2.03 1.32 0.00 0.43 0.29
Employees 0.82 1.77 0.00 0.00 1.04EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2
Contractors 2.44 1.17 0.00 0.56 0.00EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2
Work-related fatal incident rate (work-related incidents with 
employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours) w 0.81 1.32 0.00 0.43 0.29EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2SHS3: C1
Motor Vehicle Crash Rate (workforce vehicle incidents  
per million miles driven) 41 0.03 0.04 0.02 0.02 0.02
Number of Process Safety Tier 1 events  
(ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 guidance) 42 22 22 16 15 15 EM-EP-540a.1 SHS6: C1
Upstream 16 14 9 10 7
Downstream & Chemicals 6 7 6 4 7
Midstream 0 1 1 1 1
ESG qualitative metrics
environment chevron resources  SASB bIPIECA c
greenhouse gas emissions
Discuss the company’s GHG emissions strategy, 
performance and capital allocation related to 
addressing GHG emissions, including methane  
and flaring. wchevron.com/climatechangeresilience2021 EM-EP-110a.3  
EM-MD-110a.2  
EM-RM-110a.2CC1: C1 
CC1: C2 
CC1: C3 
CC1: C4 
CC2: C1 
CC2: C2 
CC2: C3 
CC5: C2 
CC7: C3
biodiversity
Description of environmental management policies 
and practices for active sites.chevron.com/biodiversity EM-EP-160a.1  
EM-MD-160a.1
emergency preparedness
Describe strategies and policies for preventing 
accidental releases of hydrocarbons and other 
materials to the environment.chevron.com/oemsoverview
chevron.com/emergencypreparednessENV6: C1  
ENV6: C4
ESG qualitative metrics table continues on page 59chevron.com/sustainability
59chevron.com/sustainability
58footnotes are on pages 60 – 61ESG qualitative metrics, cont.
social chevron resources  SASB bIPIECA c
safety and healthDescribe the company’s approach to health and safety for employees and contractors, and systems to incorporate a culture of safety throughout  the company. 
wchevron.com/oemsoverview EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-EP-540a.2  
EM-MD-540a.4  
EM-RM-320a.2SHS1: C2 
SHS1: C3
human rightsDiscussion of engagement processes, due diligence practices, remedy mechanisms and supplier communications, with respect to human rights, indigenous rights and security. 
wchevron.com/humanrightschevron.com/supplierletterEM-EP-210a.3 SOC1: C1  
SOC1: C2  
SOC2: C1  
SOC3: C1
diversity and inclusionDescribe policies, programs and procedures related to Human Capital Management and to promoting diversity, inclusion and nondiscrimination. 
w chevron.com/diversityandinclusionchevron.com/proxy2021SOC5: C1
community relationsDescribe the company’s social investment strategies, programs, community and stakeholder Grievance Mechanisms, and policies for addressing nonretaliation and nondiscrimination when regarding grievances.
chevron.com/sustainability/socialchevron.com/grievancemechanismEM-EP-210b.1 SOC8: C1  
SOC12: C1  
SOC13: C1
governance chevron resources  SASB bIPIECA c
governance strategyDiscussion of the company’s purpose, governance policies, the Board of Directors’ oversight of  ESG issues, and how ESG risks and opportunities are identified and assessed. 
wchevron.com/proxy2021chevron.com/2020ARchevron.com/thechevronwaychevron.com/investors/corporate-governanceGOV1: C1
GOV1: C3
GOV1: C5
business conductDescription of the company’s Code of Conduct, values, principles, and anticorruption and bribery polices for the company and its suppliers,  and processes for reporting unethical or  unlawful behavior. 
wchevron.com/businessconductethicscode EM-EP-510a.2 GOV3: C1  
GOV3: C3
lobbying and political contributionsDescription of the company’s approach to advocacy and lobbying, political contributions reporting, and discussion of positions related  to ESG issues. 
wchevron.com/politicaloutreachchevron.com/climatelobbyingEM-EP-530a.1
EM-RM-530a.1GOV5: C1 
GOV5: C2 chevron.com/sustainability
60 global notes
 a All restatements for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, associated emissions intensities, the category of energy efficiency and the category of water withdrawn are restated against the March 2021 release of the Climate Change Resilience: 
Advancing a Lower-Carbon Future report. All other restatements are restated 
against the May 2020 release of the 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report .
 b We used the general SASB topics to organize Chevron’s table and provide an index column to identify common reporting elements between our current reporting data and the related SASB standards. The SASB index is based solely on Chevron’s interpretation and judgment. The inclusion of the SASB index does not indicate the application of definitions, metrics, measurements, standards or approaches set forth in the SASB framework. Please refer to the relevant footnotes for information about Chevron’s data-reporting basis. As reflected in the table, Chevron currently discloses data on a number of issues recommended in the SASB Oil and Gas Exploration and Production, Midstream, and Refining and Marketing standards. Further, there are many topics on which Chevron discloses data beyond the SASB framework. 
  SASB recommendations not addressed in the data table are being studied by Chevron for potential future inclusion. Chevron could determine that some SASB recommendations do not reflect useful sustainability performance information or would be overly burdensome to implement on a global basis; such disclosures will not be included in a future data table. We strive to continually improve our data-performance reporting, and we believe that our SASB index is a positive step in further aligning our ESG reporting to SASB framework recommendations. We also continue to assess alignment with other emerging frameworks.
 c Our performance data table includes an index column that maps Chevron’s data to the corresponding relevant 2020 IPIECA standards.
 d Numbers in table may not sum due to rounding.
 e Unless otherwise noted, this section reflects 2020 data collected as of May 6, 2021. All data are reported on an operated basis unless otherwise noted.
 w The “w” identifies common reporting elements between our current reporting data and the related September 2020 World Economic Forum (WEF) sustainability  
metrics. The WEF indictor symbol is based solely on Chevron’s interpretation and judgment. The inclusion of the WEF indicator symbol does not indicate the application of definitions, metrics, measurements, standards or approaches set forth in the WEF sustainability metrics. 1
 The World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard  defines three “scopes” that Chevron uses to report GHG emissions. 
 2
 Emissions reported are net (Scope 1 and Scope 2). The emissions included in the metrics generally represent Chevron’s equity share of emissions, which are emissions from operated and nonoperated joint-venture (NOJV) assets based on Chevron’s financial interest. The scope may include sources outside traditional scoping of equity emissions, including captive emissions from processes like drilling and completions, and tolling agreements up to the point of third-party custody transfer of the oil or gas product. For oil and gas production intensity metrics, production is aligned with net production values reported in the Chevron 
Corporation Supplement to the Annual Report , which represent the company’s 
equity share of total production after deducting both royalties paid to landowners and a government’s agreed-upon share of production under a Production Sharing Agreement. Chevron’s equity-share emissions include emissions associated with these excluded royalty barrels in accordance with IPIECA guidance. Also in accordance with IPIECA guidance, Chevron’s equity-share emissions do not include emissions associated with royalty payments received by the company. Allocation of emissions between oil and gas is based on the fraction of production represented by liquids or gas. Flaring and methane intensities use the total of liquids and gas production. Oil and gas production intensities use liquids production and natural gas production, respectively.
 3
 Scope 1 includes direct emissions. Direct GHG emissions related to production of energy in the form of electricity or steam exported or sold to a third party are included in the reported Scope 1 emissions to align with IPIECA’s Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry  (2020). 
Chevron’s Scope 1 includes emissions of six Kyoto GHGs—carbon dioxide (CO
2), 
methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and 
hydrofluorocarbons. Calculation methods are based on API’s Compendium of 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry  
(2009) or, where relevant, local regulatory reporting methodologies.
 4 Where limited emissions information is available for NOJVs, Chevron’s equity share  
of total CO 2-equivalent (CO 2e) emissions is allocated to Scope 1 CO 2 emissions. 
 5 Restated 2016–2019 Scope 1 equity emissions include Chevron’s equity-share emissions for Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC ( CPChem ) and reporting 
improvements. Additionally, restated 2019 Scope 1 equity emissions include Chevron’s equity-share emissions for NOJVs in which Chevron has less than a 16 percent equity share (where previously excluded).
 
6 Chevron’s equity-share emissions for Loma Campana concession excluded for 2016–2018 and included for 2019–2020. Restated 2018 and 2019 numbers include Chevron’s equity-share emissions for Clair Ridge NOJV. Chevron’s equity-share emissions for CalBioGas LLC and Brightmark RNG Holdings LLC NOJVs excluded for 2020.
 
7 As governments update their Global Warming Potentials (GWPs), we anticipate updating methane data reporting in our environmental tables and the associated performance evaluation. For transparency, and to enable stakeholders to make their own calculations based on their preferred timeline and GWPs, we provide methane emissions data and intensity performance as a mass of methane as well as its conversion under the AR4 100-year GWP to a CO
2-equivalent. Although 
we strive to provide consistent data from our operated and nonoperated assets, some nonoperated assets may provide their data only on a CO
2e basis. Given the 
common industry practice of using the AR4 100-year GWP, we have assumed that those nonoperated assets that did not provide methane mass data use a 100-year  
GWP of 25. We continue to work with our joint-venture partners to provide information on a standardized basis to increase transparency.
 
8 Downstream includes emissions from refineries and terminals. Chemical and base oil facilities located within refineries are included in refinery emissions.
 
9 Chemicals includes emissions from stand-alone chemical, additive and lubricant facilities.
 
10 Other emissions include GHG emissions from Chevron Power and Energy Management, Corporate Aviation, Chevron Environmental Management and Real Estate Company, and North American Data Center.
 
11 Upstream flaring emissions closely represent the contribution of flaring to 
Chevron’s total GHG emissions.  
 12 Exported emissions are direct GHG emissions related to production of energy in the form of electricity or steam that are exported or sold to a third party.notes to pages 47 through 59chevron.com/sustainability
60chevron.com/sustainability
61 13 Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from imported electricity and steam. CO 2,  
CH 4 and N 2O are accounted for in Chevron’s Scope 2 emissions. Scope 2 
emissions are accounted for using the market-based approach as described  
in the World Resources Institute’s GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance  (2015).
 14 For equity reporting, sales or storage of company CO 2 (Chevron and NOJV) 
includes both CO 2 sold to third parties and CO 2 (and other gas) injected for 
carbon storage. Credits generated from CO 2 injection by NOJV partners may be 
sold. For operated reporting, sales or storage of company CO 2 (Chevron) includes 
both CO 2 sold to third parties and CO 2 (and other gas) injected for carbon storage.
 15 For equity reporting, purchase or injection includes third-party CO 2 purchased 
and injected for enhanced oil recovery, excluding equity-share NOJV data. For operated reporting, purchase or injection includes third-party CO
2 purchased and 
injected for enhanced oil recovery.
 16 Includes offsets retired in compliance programs. For programs with multiyear compliance periods, offsets are apportioned according to the compliance obligation for each year.
 17 Excludes offsets sold as part of a divestiture. Offsets are reported for the year  
in which the offset was generated (vintage year) only if subsequently sold.
 18 Chevron calculates emissions from third-party use of our products in alignment with methods in Category 11 of IPIECA’s Estimating Petroleum Industry Value  
Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions  (2016). Emissions are based on 
aggregate production, throughput and sales numbers that include renewable fuels.
 
19 Annual third-party verification covers Scope 1 and Scope 2 equity emissions, as first reported in Chevron’s Corporate Sustainability Report  for each reporting 
year, but generally does not cover subsequent restatements and does not include Chevron equity-share emissions for CPChem .
 20 In the course of normal business processes, Chevron seeks limited assurance of  
prior-year GHG emissions data for publication in its Corporate Sustainability Report .
 21 Manufacturing Energy Index (Refining) is an analysis of Chevron’s refining energy performance based on the Solomon Energy Intensity Index methodology. Chevron’s MEI includes the refining assets at Chevron’s operated and non-operated joint-venture refineries.
 22 Pipeline Energy Intensity for 2020 does not include Noble Midstream Partners LP. 
 23 Chevron’s Non-Manufacturing Energy Index includes Chevron’s terminals, chemical, additives and lubricant facilities. It reflects the energy required to produce Chevron products compared with the energy that would have been required to produce the same products in 1992 (the index’s base year).
 24 For compiling and reporting air emissions data, Chevron follows regulatory definitions of VOC. SO
X emissions include SO 2 and SO 3, reported as SO 2- 
equivalent. NO X emissions include NO and NO 2 (reported as NO 2    -equivalent)  
and exclude N 2O. 
 25 Fresh water withdrawn from the environment is defined per local legal definitions. If no local definition exists, fresh water is defined as water extracted, directly or indirectly, from surface water, groundwater or rainwater that has a total dissolved- solids concentration of less than or equal to 2,000 mg/L. Fresh water withdrawn does not include effluent or recycled/reclaimed water from municipal or other industrial wastewater treatment systems, as this water is reported under nonfresh water withdrawn. Nonfresh water withdrawn could include: seawater; brackish groundwater or surface water; reclaimed wastewater from another municipal or industrial facility; desalinated water; or remediated groundwater used for industrial purposes. Produced water is excluded from fresh water withdrawn, fresh water consumed and nonfresh water withdrawn. Water quantities may be determined using direct measurement techniques or engineering estimation methods. Fresh water and nonfresh water withdrawn totals decreased in 2020 in part due to decreased activity across operations.
 26 Refining includes data from refineries, including chemical and base oil facilities located within refineries. 
 27 Other includes, but is not limited to, chemical and lubricant facilities, as well as Chevron Environmental Management and Real Estate Company.
 28 Chevron calculates fresh water withdrawn intensity for Upstream using gross operated production.  29 Chevron calculates fresh water withdrawn intensity for refining using total refinery inputs, which comprise all feeds into the refinery. This includes purchased crudes for crude units and third-party feeds for other processing units.
 30 Oil concentration is determined by the sampling of effluent streams, using methods required or recommended by regulatory agencies or authorities, where applicable. Chevron reports the total cumulative amount of oil discharged to surface water excluding spills, which are reported separately. 
 31 Chevron reports petroleum spills to land and water to conform to the 2020 IPIECA Reporting Guidance . Spills to land and water that are greater than or equal 
to one barrel are included. Spills to secondary containment, chemical spills and spills due to sabotage are excluded. Accidental release prevention and response data for 2020 do not include data for the former Noble Energy, Inc. assets.
 
32 To conform to the 2015 and 2020 IPIECA Reporting Guidance s, and where 
appropriate information and data exist, our hazardous waste numbers starting  
in 2015 exclude remediation waste generated; disposed of; and recycled, reused or recovered. Hazardous waste amounts are quantified using methods required or  
recommended by regulatory agencies or authorities, where applicable. In other instances, similar methods are used, including direct measurement onsite or at  
the point of shipping, engineering estimates and process knowledge. Chevron follows the regulatory definitions of hazardous waste applicable to the jurisdictions  
in which we operate, including de minimis  specifications (below which hazardous 
waste quantities do not need to be reported).
 33 The 2020 data are based on information received from government entities and recorded internally as of April 14, 2021.
 34 Global employee diversity and U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission percentages have been rounded to the nearest whole percentage. Global data are as of December of the year identified. Although gender is not binary, gender is currently reported in binary (men, women) terms to align with U.S. government reporting regulations. Our most recently filed Federal Employer Information Report EEO-1 is available for download at chevron.com/eeo-1 . EEO-1 gender and 
ethnicity counts may vary from other methodologies.
 35 Ethnicities with representation less than 2 percent such as, but not limited to, Native Americans, Pacific Islanders, and Two or More Races.
 36 Unless otherwise indicated, 2020 data include employees from 2020 acquisitions of Puma Energy (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd and Noble Energy, Inc., where applicable. Data for all years do not include service station employees unless specifically stated.
 37 Excludes data from 2020 acquisitions of Puma Energy (Australia) Holdings Pty  
Ltd and Noble Energy, Inc., pending integration of HR information systems.
 38 For years 2016–2018, data collected as of February 20, 2019. For year 2019,  
data collected as of January 23, 2020. For year 2020, data collected as of February 24, 2021.
 39 This section reflects Chevron data collected as of March 12, 2021, and excludes data from the 2020 acquisition of Noble Energy, Inc., pending integration of safety data systems. Health and safety performance rates include both injury-  
and illness-related incidents. API’s Benchmarking Survey of Occupational Injuries, 
Illnesses and Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry  data, used in previous years as 
industry benchmarks, are no longer provided by API as of 2020. 
 40 Serious injuries are injuries that result in significant disfigurement, or typically result in permanent or long-term impairment of an internal organ, body function or body part.
 41 Data include catastrophic and major incidents only.
 42 Process Safety Tier 1 loss-of-primary-containment (LOPC) events are unplanned or uncontrolled releases resulting in consequences equivalent to those specified  
by American National Standards Institute/American Petroleum Institute (ANSI/API)  
Recommended Practice (RP) 754 and IOGP Report 456: Process Safety 
Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators .notes to pages 47 through 59, cont.performance and data
our operational  
excellence  
management system
It enables us to assess risks, identify safeguards and implement 
programs to assure the effectiveness of those safeguards. 
OEMS provides the framework for our adherence to Operational 
Excellence (OE), which puts into action our Chevron Way  
value of protecting people and the environment. 
OEMS systematically manages workforce safety and health, 
process safety, reliability and integrity, environment, efficiency, 
security, and stakeholders to meet our OE objectives: 
• Eliminate fatalities, serious injuries and illnesses
• Eliminate high-consequence process safety incidents and 
operate with industry-leading reliability
• Assess and manage significant environmental risks
• Use energy and resources efficiently
• Prevent high-consequence security and cybersecurity incidents
• Address OE business risks through stakeholder engagement  
and issues management
Since its launch in 2004, OEMS has helped the company make 
dramatic improvements in important measures of personal and 
process safety, reliability, and environmental performance. 
In 2018, our leadership recognized our progress toward our 
commitment to protect people and the environment, while still 
targeting areas for improvement, particularly in the objective  
to eliminate high-consequence personal and process safety  
events. This means no fatalities or serious injuries and no fires, 
spills or explosions that can affect people or communities.  
To further progress toward this objective, we updated OEMS 
in 2018, retaining many of the core elements of the original but 
making it simpler in structure and easier to understand. 
Under the updated OEMS, we all have a role in achieving our  
OE objectives, and leaders are accountable for performance and 
are expected to apply increased focus on three key areas with 
the workforce: understanding the high-consequence risks that 
we and our contractors manage every day; clearly identifying 
the safeguards that mitigate these risks; and assuring that the 
safeguards are in place and functioning as intended.chevron’s operational  
excellence management system 
(OEMS) is a comprehensive  
and prescriptive system to  
improve our health, safety and 
environmental performance 
chevron.com/oemsoverview
safeguards
management
system cycleleadership and
OE culture
focus areas
and OE 
expectationsassurance
risk management
chevron.com/sustainability
62•  The scope of OEMS goes beyond the respective scopes of ISO 14001 and ISO 
45001 by establishing additional expectations, including the implementation of 
processes related to security, reliability and efficiency, legislative and regulatory 
advocacy, community and stakeholder engagement, and product stewardship.
•  OEMS is in place throughout the corporation.
•  Implementation of the OEMS has coincided with continual improvement in 
Chevron’s reported health, safety and environmental performance indicators.
•  The Management System Process at the Corporate, Operating Company and 
Business Unit organizational levels is a key driver of continual improvement. The 
process follows a risk-based approach and is most mature for those processes 
determined by Chevron to be of highest risk.
•  The strengths of OEMS include leadership engagement and accountability, 
aligned governance across the corporation, and a standardized Management 
System Process that provided evidence of sustainability and continual 
improvement.
The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance.
LR’s Recommendations
Observations and areas for potential improvement were provided in a report to 
Chevron Management. These observations do not affect the opinions expressed 
in this assurance statement.
Andrea M. Bockrath
LR Lead Assessor  
On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.  
1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200  
Houston, TX 77077  
January 1, 2021
LR Reference: UQA0110889
LR Independent Assurance Statement
2020 ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 Attestation Statement  
for Chevron Corporation
Terms of Engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LR) was commissioned on behalf of 
Chevron corporation (Chevron), to review its Operational Excellence Management 
System (OEMS), as published on chevron.com/OEMS .
Our engagement was to review the OEMS against the requirements of the 
international standard for environmental management systems, ISO 14001, and 
the internationally recognized specification for occupational health and safety 
management systems, ISO 45001.
The objectives of the review were to confirm that the design of OEMS was aligned 
with ISO 14001 and ISO 45001, to confirm that OEMS was in place across the 
corporation, and to assess the role of OEMS in driving continual improvement. 
This statement covers 2020, during which we continued to monitor the status 
of Chevron’s OEMS as a continuation of similar reviews undertaken by LR for 
Chevron since 2004.
Management Responsibility
Chevron’s management was responsible for designing and maintaining the OEMS. 
LR’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the OEMS in 
accordance with our contract with Chevron. Ultimately, the OEMS remains the 
responsibility of Chevron.
LR’s Approach
To form our conclusions, the assurance was undertaken as a sampling exercise 
and covered the following activities:
•  Confirmation that the OEMS continues to embrace the intent of the 
requirements and is maintained across the corporation.
•  Annual reviews with Chevron’s Operating Company Operational Excellence 
(OE) leaders from Corporate in San Ramon, California, to verify OEMS 
implementation status and review future plans.
•  Annual reviews with OE leaders from Chevron Upstream, and Downstream & 
Chemicals, offices in San Ramon, California, and Houston, Texas, to review OE 
progress and metrics.
•  Observation of Chevron’s remote corporate OE audits at Upstream and 
Downstream business units, and Chevron Shipping, covering operations at 
three locations in the United States.
LR’s Opinion
Based on LR’s approach, it is our opinion that:
•  The design of OEMS is aligned with the requirements of ISO 14001:2015  
and ISO 45001:2018 and has addressed each of the individual management 
system elements.
  Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., and their respective officers, employees or agents 
are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for 
any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract 
with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or advice, and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms 
and conditions set out in that contract.
The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.
Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2021. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.
chevron.com/sustainability
63chevron.com/sustainability
62•  Virtually visiting the Chevron Salt Lake Refinery, Chevron Gulf of Mexico 
business unit and Chevron Shipping Company to assess local understanding  
and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements. 
•  Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understanding of Chevron’s 
reporting requirements, including key persons responsible for drafting the CSR.
•  Reviewing Chevron’s documented reporting requirements to validate 
consistency of scope, definition and reporting requirements for each of the HES 
performance indicators. 
•  Reviewing Chevron’s primary data collection tools to assess use in the reporting 
processes.
•  Evaluating consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance 
on voluntary sustainability reporting  (2020) and SASB Oil and Gas—Exploration 
and Production, Midstream, Refining & Marketing  (2018). 
Observations 
Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:
•  Processes were in place to ensure that personnel contributing to HES metrics 
understood corporate reporting procedures and requirements.
•  Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly defined 
and communicated.
•  Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood and carried 
out. Data collected at the site/local and business-unit levels were checked and 
aggregated into corporationwide metrics.
•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines was 
clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken.
LR’s Standards, Competence and Independence
LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their 
qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and 
certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to 
ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.
LR is one of Chevron’s certification bodies for ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949 and 
greenhouse gas emissions verification. The certification assessments and 
verification are the only work undertaken by LR for Chevron and as such do not 
compromise our independence or impartiality. 
Andrea M. Bockrath
LR Lead Verifier  
On behalf of Lloyds Register Business Assurance, Inc.  
1330 Enclave Pkwy, Suite 200  
Houston, TX 77077  
April 27, 2021
LR Reference: UQA4000679
LR Independent Assurance Statement
Relating to Chevron Corporation’s Corporate Sustainability Report   
for Calendar Year 2020
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A. Inc. in 
accordance with our contract, but is intended for the readers of this report. 
Terms of Engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LR) was commissioned by Chevron U.S.A.  
Inc. on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron) to provide independent assurance 
on its processes used in the creation of the Corporate Sustainability Report (CSR) 
for calendar year 2020 to a reasonable level using LR’s verification approach. 
Our assurance engagement covered Chevron’s operations and activities 
worldwide and specifically covered the following requirements:
•  Reviewing the effectiveness of the processes for reporting health, environment 
and safety (HES) IPIECA performance indicators.
•  Confirming consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance 
on voluntary sustainability reporting  (2020) industry indicators that were 
identified by Chevron.
•  Confirming consistency with Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Oil & Gas—Exploration & Production, SASB Oil & Gas—Midstream and SASB Oil &  
Gas—Refining & Marketing  October 2018 Sustainability Accounting Standards 
metrics that were identified by Chevron. 
Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data and 
information reported in the CSR, nor did it include metrics beyond HES.
LR’s responsibility is only to Chevron. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to 
others, as explained in the end footnote. Chevron’s management is for collecting, 
aggregating, analyzing and presenting all the data and information within the 
CSR and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which 
the CSR is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the 
responsibility of, Chevron. 
LR’s Opinion
Based on LR’s approach, we believe that Chevron’s reporting processes were 
effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for assessing corporate 
performance and reporting information consistent with core and additional 
reporting elements in the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance on 
voluntary sustainability reporting  (2020) and SASB Oil and Gas—Exploration and 
Production, Midstream, Refining & Marketing  accounting metrics referenced in 
the Performance Data Table. In some cases, IPIECA elements and SASB metrics 
referenced are partially reported.
The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance 
and at the materiality of the professional judgment of the verifier. 
LR’s Approach
LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification 
procedure. The following tasks, though, were undertaken as part of the evidence-
gathering process for this assurance engagement:
•  Virtually visiting Chevron in San Ramon, California, to review data collection 
and checking processes. Reviewing Chevron Upstream, Chevron Midstream, and 
Chevron Downstream & Chemicals to assess business-unit understanding and 
implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements. 
  Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., and their respective officers, employees or agents 
are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for 
any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract 
with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and, in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms 
and conditions set out in that contract.
The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages.
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.
Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2021. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.
chevron.com/sustainability
64about this report
This report contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron’s 
operations that are based on management’s current expectations, 
estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other 
energy-related industries. These statements are not guarantees of future 
conduct or policy and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other 
factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control, including 
government regulation and oil and gas prices. See Forward-Looking 
Statements Warning at the end of this report.
This report covers our owned and operated businesses and does not 
address the performance or operations of our suppliers, contractors and 
partners unless otherwise noted. In the case of certain joint ventures  
for which Chevron is the operator, we exercise influence but not control.  
Thus, the governance, processes, management, and strategy for those  
joint ventures are known to differ from those detailed in this report.  
On October 5, 2020, we announced the completion of the acquisition  
of Noble Energy, Inc. (Noble). This report does not speak to Noble’s  
historic governance, risk management, or strategy approaches unless 
specifically referenced. All financial information is presented in U.S.  
dollars unless otherwise noted.
Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the development, 
implementation or continuation of any program, policy or initiative 
discussed or forecasted in this report, may differ materially in the future. 
As with any projections or estimates, actual results or numbers may 
vary. Many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this report 
continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed 
to be reasonable at the time of preparation but should not be considered 
guarantees. The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the 
date of this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly 
any statements in this report.
This report contains information from third parties, such as the World 
Resources Institute and IEA. Chevron makes no representation or 
warranty as to the third-party information. Where necessary, Chevron 
received permission to cite third-party sources, but the information and 
data remain under the control and direction of the third parties. Where 
Chevron has used information, it has noted the source. This report contains 
terms used by IPIECA, SASB and WEF, as well as information about how 
the disclosures in this report align with the recommendations of IPIECA, 
SASB and WEF. In doing so, Chevron does not intend to endorse or adopt 
and is not endorsing or adopting these phrases or recommendations. 
In using these terms and referencing the recommendations, Chevron 
is not obligating itself to use the terms in the way defined by IPIECA, 
SASB and WEF, nor is it obligating itself to comply with any specific 
recommendations or to provide any specific disclosure. Chevron makes 
no representation or warranty as to the IPIECA, SASB or WEF’s use or 
definition of specific terms or recommendations. For example, with 
respect to the use of the term material , individual companies are best 
suited to determine what information is material , under the long-standing 
U.S. Supreme Court definition of that term, and whether to disclose this 
information in U.S. Securities and Exchange financial filings.
As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as “the 
company,” “the corporation,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” may refer to one 
or more of Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of 
them taken as a whole, but unless stated otherwise they do not include 
“affiliates” of Chevron—i.e., those companies generally owned 50 percent 
or less. All of these terms are used for convenience only and are not 
intended as a precise description of any of the separate companies, each  
of which manages its own affairs.CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR  
THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION 
REFORM ACT OF 1995 
This report of Chevron Corporation contains forward-looking statements relating to  
Chevron’s operations that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and 
projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. Words  
or phrases such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “advances,” 
“commits,” “designs,” “drives,” “aims,” “forecasts,” “projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “schedules,” 
“estimates,” “positions,” “pursues,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “budgets,” “outlook,” 
“trends,” “guidance,” “focus,” “on schedule,” “on track,” “is slated,” “goals,” “objectives,” 
“strategies,” “opportunities,” “poised,” “potential,” and similar expressions are intended to 
identify such forward-looking statements.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, 
uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control and  
are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from  
what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. The reader should  
not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the  
date of this report. Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation to update 
publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise.
Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those  
in the forward-looking statements are: changing crude oil and natural gas prices and demand 
for our products, and production curtailments due to market conditions; crude oil production 
quotas or other actions that might be imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting 
Countries (OPEC) and other producing countries; public health crises, such as pandemics 
(including coronavirus (COVID-19)) and epidemics, and any related government policies and 
actions; changing economic, regulatory and political environments in the various countries 
in which the company operates; general domestic and international economic and political 
conditions; changing refining, marketing and chemicals margins; the company’s ability 
to realize anticipated cost savings, expenditure reductions and efficiencies associated 
with enterprise transformation initiatives; actions of competitors or regulators; timing of 
exploration expenses; timing of crude oil liftings; the competitiveness of alternate-energy 
sources or product substitutes; technological developments; the results of operations 
and financial condition of the company’s suppliers, vendors, partners and equity affiliates, 
particularly during extended periods of low prices for crude oil and natural gas during 
the COVID-19 pandemic; the inability or failure of the company’s joint-venture partners to 
fund their share of operations and development activities; the potential failure to achieve 
expected net production from existing and future crude oil and natural gas development 
projects; potential delays in the development, construction or start-up of planned projects; 
the potential disruption or interruption of the company’s operations due to war, accidents, 
political events, civil unrest, severe weather, cyber threats, terrorist acts or other natural  
or human causes beyond the company’s control; the potential liability for remedial actions 
or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; significant 
operational, investment or product changes required by existing or future environmental 
statutes and regulations, including international agreements and national or regional 
legislation and regulatory measures to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions; the 
potential liability resulting from pending or future litigation; the company’s ability to achieve 
the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Noble Energy, Inc.; the company’s future 
acquisitions or dispositions of assets or shares or the delay or failure of such transactions 
to close based on required closing conditions; the potential for gains and losses from asset 
dispositions or impairments; government-mandated sales, divestitures, recapitalizations, 
industry-specific taxes, tariffs, sanctions, changes in fiscal terms or restrictions on scope of 
company operations; foreign currency movements compared with the U.S. dollar; material 
reductions in corporate liquidity and access to debt markets; the receipt of required Board 
authorizations to pay future dividends; the effects of changed accounting rules under 
generally accepted accounting principles promulgated by rule-setting bodies; the company’s 
ability to identify and mitigate the risks and hazards inherent in operating in the global energy 
industry; and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” on pages 18 through 23 
of the company’s 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in subsequent filings with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed 
in this report could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.forward-looking statements warning
Produced by  Corporate Affairs and Strategy and Sustainability, Chevron Corporation
Design  Sequel Studio, New York, sequelstudio.com
Photo credits  10: GeoMedia; 37, 45: Marc MarriottIf you have questions about this report, please contact:  
ESG and Sustainability  
Chevron Corporation  
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, Building A
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
chevron.com/sustainability
65chevron.com/sustainability
64Aligned with our Chevron Way value to protect people and the environment, we have printed this report on  
Forest Stewardship Council®-certified paper made with recycled Post-Consumer waste.
Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar panels are expected to offset the company’s energy demands by 30 percent.
Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com
© 2021 Chevron Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 913-0386S (6-21) (500)To create customized charts and tables using our performance data,  
visit chevron.com/sustainability/performance/chart-generator . 
For our performance data,  
visit chevron.com/sustainability/performance .chevron.com/sustainabilitylearn more