2018  
corporate responsibility  
report highlights
for complete reporting,  
visit chevron.com/crhuman energywe are in the business of progress
At the heart of The Chevron Way is our vision … to be the global  
energy company most admired for its people, partnership  
and performance. We enable human progress by developing the  
energy that improves lives and powers the world forward.
read more   chevron.com/chevronway
Since our industry’s inception, energy has continued to evolve on 
different paths, at different speeds in different geographies.  
Chevron partners with one of the longest-serving international  
nongovernmental organizations in Myanmar, Pact, to deliver affordable, renewable solar energy to homes and communities. The Ahlin Yaung program, meaning “light” in Burmese, has enabled over 240,000  
people to benefit from solar energy, including helping households to shift from kerosene and wood-based energy sources to solar.On the cover: Daw Win Mar, a crop farmer in the Kyauk Se Lay  village of Myanmar, is a beneficiary of the Ahlin Yaung program.  To learn more about our social investments worldwide, see  chevron.com/creatingprosperity .chevron.com/cr
1
a message from our  
chairman and  
chief executive officer
This year, Chevron celebrates  
an important milestone  in our company’s history— our 140th anniversary  of enabling human progress around the world.
achieved by honoring The Chevron Way—the touchstone that 
guides our actions. We do business the right and responsible way, and in this report, you will read about the actions we’re taking to engage our diverse workforce; manage risks; keep people healthy and safe; protect the environment; respect human rights; and address climate change.
Protecting the environment is at the core of The Chevron Way.  
We share society’s concerns as governments pursue the  
goals expressed in the Paris Agreement. Every day, we work to 
make the world’s energy ever-cleaner and our environmental footprint smaller. Those opportunities range from ensuring robust water management techniques to reducing plastic waste in the environment to partnering with companies and investing  
in technology that directly removes carbon dioxide from the air.Above:  Chairman and CEO Mike Wirth engages with colleagues during a visit to  
Chevron’s offices in Angola.
Chairman’s letter continues on Page 2We strive to uphold this proud legacy every day as we deliver  
the affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy that life depends on. We are in the business of progress, and our work helps billions of people achieve better living standards, access to education, longer and healthier lives, and social and economic opportunities.
Helping people improve their quality of life is a tremendous 
responsibility. It’s why we work. And it’s why Chevron supports  
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to deliver  
value for global societies.
Today, about 40 percent of the world’s citizens, or 3 billion people, 
have access to only rudimentary forms of energy. Each of these people deserves better access to energy and the better quality of life it provides. In the decades ahead, energy demand is expected to surge more than 25 percent, driven by rising incomes and population growth.
As more energy—and more different forms of energy—is required  
to power the world forward, more of the population will depend  
on Chevron and our people, partnerships and performance.We partner with thousands of business, government and nonprofit 
organizations to expand health, education and economic develop-
ment in the communities where we operate. To further promote prosperity in these communities, Chevron has spent $154 billion on goods and services and more than $1 billion on social investments globally in the past five years. 
Our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights  includes  
key environmental, social and governance advancements we have chevron.com/cr
2
Delivering those opportunities will require Chevron’s greatest  
asset—our people. How we work and how we respond to 
challenges must continue evolving, to ensure we continue delivering human progress.
Chevron has always been defined by our problem solvers—
innovators driven to help enable economic, social and individual opportunity for people who aspire to better lives. Affordable, reliable and cleaner energy is essential to enabling this human progress. And just as Chevron has provided the energy that  
helped our world prosper over the past 140 years, we will continue to partner with you—our stakeholders and shareholders—to  
deliver energy in the future.
Michael K. Wirth
Chairman of the Board and  Chief Executive OfficerMay 2019Above:  Wirth received a briefing on our Angolan field operations during a visit in 2018.
awards and recognition
corporate responsibility 
Dow Jones Sustainability  
North America Index
Forbes and JUST Capital JUST 100
Ministry of Thailand 
Thailand Energy Awards 2018  
Outstanding Energy Conservation in Transport 
workforce
Corporate Equality Index  
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality 
Glassdoor Employees’ Choice  
Best Places to Work in 2019
National Business Inclusion Consortium  
Best-of-the-Best Corporations for Inclusion
Rigzone Ideal Employer Rankings
Women’s Choice Award  
Best Companies for Women
Women's Business Enterprise National Council  
Top Corporation Hall of Fame  
for Women’s Business Enterpriseschevron.com/cr
3
identifying issues  
through continuous  
engagement
issue prioritization process 
To select content for our 2018 Corporate Responsibility  
Report Highlights  and the corporate responsibility section of 
chevron.com , we interviewed subject matter experts from  
across our business segments to identify and validate relevant  
ESG topics. In addition, Chevron worked with a research firm  
that conducted anonymous surveys of institutional investors, 
nongovernmental organizations and other external stakeholders. 
These stake holders identified the same issues highlighted in  
the previous year’s report. Chevron’s Global Issues Com  mittee,  
a subcommittee of Chevron’s Executive Committee, reviewed  
and validated our assessment and prioritization.
stockholder engagement 
Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining stockholder 
trust and goodwill are core Chevron values. Through our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance departments, we engage with stockholders to discuss operational, financial, governance, executive compensation, environmental, safety, social and  
policy issues. 
In 2018, our ESG Engagement team had substantive engagements 
representing more than 52 percent of Chevron’s outstanding common stock. This team met with all stockholders who submitted proxy proposals to discuss their concerns and potential areas  
for agreement.
employee engagement 
Chevron employees have solved some of history’s most complex energy challenges. Today we are equipping and inspiring our  workforce to do the same while also anticipating those on the  
horizon. Through continuous engagement and increased connec-
tivity, we are nurturing our greatest resources—human ingenuity, creativity and imagination—to shape our ESG contributions  around the world.
In order to bring together minds from around the world, we 
launched an internal social network, Workplace by Facebook, to create a more connected, inclusive work environment. By the end of 2018, more than half of our workforce had created accounts, and more than 2,000 discussion groups had been created to enable people to connect, share, collaborate and innovate for the future.learn more   chevron.com/ESGreporting  our corporate responsibility 
reporting focuses on  
environmental, social and  
governance (ESG) issues that 
matter to our stakeholders—
investors, customers,  
host governments, local  
communities and employeesenvironment social governancechevron.com/cr
4the ESG issues  
that matter to our  
stakeholders  
and our business
1
a message from our 
chairman and chief executive officer
3
identifying issues through continuous 
engagement
We identify ESG issues that matter to our stakeholders.vision environment social performance governance
chevron.com/cr
46
protecting 
the environment
We protect the environment 
through innovative and responsible operations.
8
addressing 
climate change
We take prudent and  
cost-effective actions to manage climate change business risks and pursue opportunities to lower our emissions and develop lower-carbon energy.
10
managing 
water resources
Water is a societal, 
environmental and economic resource.13
valuing diversity 
and inclusion
Our people are our most 
valuable resource.
16
creating 
prosperity
We believe our business 
succeeds best when our communities succeed. 
20
contributing to 
the united nations sustainable 
development goals
We continue to help solve the world’s most complex challenges.
22
respecting 
human rights
Enabling human progress 
begins with respecting human rights.26
getting results 
the right way
We are committed to 
strong governance and the highest standards of ethics.
28
prioritizing 
our culture of operational
excellence
We manage health, safety and environmental risks. 
30
operating safely 
and reliably
We keep our people, 
our partners and the environment safe.
32
engaging our 
stakeholders
We are committed to 
working the right and responsible way.35
performance 
data
Our quantitative 
environmental, safety and social performance.
40
additional 
informationchevron.com/cr
56
protecting 
the environment8
addressing 
climate change10
managing 
water resourcesfocusing on 
environmental 
issueslearn more   chevron.com/environmentprotecting  
the environment
we protect the environment  
through innovative  
and responsible operations
chevron.com/cr
7environmental DNA
Chevron uses biodiversity monitoring to identify  
and manage the potential impacts of our operations 
on sensitive biological resources. 
Traditional methods rely on observation or collection 
of species, both of which are labor-intensive and  
are representative only of the point in time they were taken. Recent advances in rapid DNA sequencing technology have unveiled a powerful biodiversity monitoring tool called environmental DNA (eDNA).  
By analyzing DNA fragments in seawater, fresh water, soil and sediment, eDNA can provide advanced warning of potential threats, such as invasive species and changes in biodiversity composition well before they could be detected by traditional methods. Chevron is using this technology to more efficiently and effectively: 
•  Develop pre-operational baseline assessments 
•  Detect rare, endangered and/or invasive species
• Monitor subterranean fauna
Previous page:  Mangroves are a group of trees or shrubs in tropical coastal areas that 
are flooded at high tide. Their roots typically form dense thickets and support a wide 
variety of species. In Australia, our engineers developed a unique micro-tunneling technique to bore underneath the Ashburton River Delta and protect this habitat while connecting the Wheatstone production field with the liquefied natural gas facility.We are committed to pursuing innovations that improve our  
environmental performance and reduce the potential environ-
mental impacts of our operations. 
This commitment is built into the way we manage our operations. 
Our Operational Excellence Management System establishes standards and objectives that extend from the corporate level  
to local management, allowing our businesses to focus on the  
risks and potential environmental issues that affect specific operating locations.
innovating to reduce our environmental impact
Innovative technologies help us assess and manage our environmental performance. Here are some examples from  
across our company.
Leak imaging 
Leak imaging provides real-time visuals to help find gas and  
liquid leaks that might otherwise go undetected. Hand-held, port-able leak imagers, also called gas detection cameras, are used  
for proactive leak detection and regulatory compliance. Chevron is an industry leader in piloting new automated leak detection imagers that monitor around the clock. This technology enables earlier detection, more ground coverage and better source identification than traditional methods, improving Chevron’s environmental performance. 
Remote sensing 
Remote sensing from satellites and aerial platforms provides crucial data to support effective oil spill responses. In 2018, we conducted an oil spill drill in the Gulf of Mexico that tested remote sensing approaches to evaluate their capabilities and enhance  
our ability to respond. Technologies tested included:
• Satellite radar and optical sensors
•  A high-resolution real-time aerial imaging system
• An airborne multispectral oil imaging sensor
• Robotic aerial systems
• Aerostat-based capabilities
This drill provided emergency responders with hands-on 
experience in how to use and incorporate these technologies  
into our operations.
explore how  
we protect the  
environment  
in australia
chevron.com/habitatchevron.com/cr
8explore more on our  
ongoing efforts to  
address climate change
learn more   chevron.com/climatechange
addressing concerns about climate change
Chevron shares the concerns of governments and the public 
about a rapidly changing climate. We integrate climate change into our business decisions to help us analyze potential risks and identify new opportunities to lower emissions and develop cleaner energy. In February 2019, we published Update to Climate 
Change Resilience: A Framework for Decision Making . The update 
builds upon our two previous reports and describes our voluntary reporting on climate-related issues involving governance, risk management, business strategy, actions and investments. As the world’s energy needs grow and change, we remain focused on improving current sources of energy and scaling future solutions  
to deliver greater benefit to communities, with fewer environ-mental impacts.
Managing greenhouse gases
We’re seeking ways to reduce emissions while improving our operations. In 2018, our Board of Directors established greenhouse gas emissions performance measures, targeting a 20 to 25 percent  
reduction in methane emissions intensity and a 25 to 30 percent  
reduction in flaring intensity by 2023, in line with the first “stock-take” under the Paris Agreement. Beginning in 2019, we will tie compensation for executives and nearly all other employees to the results of these efforts. We will report our progress in the 2020 Annual Proxy Statement.addressing  
climate change
we take prudent and cost-effective actions to  
manage climate change business risks,  
pursue opportunities to lower our emissions  
and develop lower-carbon energychevron.com/cr
9
researching carbon  
capture technologies
Betty Pun (pictured), a carbon capture specialist in 
Chevron’s Energy Technology Company, is part of a team that researches carbon capture and storage as a way of effectively reducing the footprint of hydrocarbons. Her team focuses on capturing CO
2 
directly from the air, and they work with other oil companies on research they hope one day will have broad applications for industry.
“We’re simply trying to put the carbon back where we 
got it from,” she says. The scale of the CO
2 challenge 
will require more than one solution and more than one technology. “Our research could benefit everyone,” she says.
Much of Pun’s work is on joint industrial projects,  
which involves strategic thinking to ensure good out-
comes for all participating companies. Another part  
of her job is the evaluation of new technologies, including those funded by government, that need additional work before finding applications in oil and gas and other industries.
“I like to look at things from many angles,” she says 
of the value she brings to the job. “That is how we find win-win solutions to complicated challenges.”Chevron has invested approximately $1.1 billion in carbon capture, utilization and storage projects. These projects are expected  
to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by about 5 million metric tons per year, roughly equivalent to the GHG emissions of 620,000 U.S. homes’ annual electricity usage. In 2018, we joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a global collaboration to address energy industry climate change issues. Metrics for our GHG emissions are on Pages 35–36 . 
Investing in emerging energy sourcesTo help us make the best decisions about emerging energy sources, we are conducting research and development and collaborating with government, academia and other stakeholders on alternative fuels and emission reduction opportunities. Renewable energy sources are part of the equation. Biofuels, such as renewable diesel, complement conventional transportation fuels and can help reduce overall carbon emissions. For example, in 2018 we began selling a renewable diesel product, R99, to commercial customers. It is made of nonpetroleum sources, such as natural fats, vegetable oils and greases.
Chevron Technology Ventures established the Future Energy  
Fund to invest in emerging technologies that reduce carbon  
emis  sions. An initial commitment of $100 million launched the  
fund. A first investment went to ChargePoint, one of the largest 
operators of electric-vehicle charging networks, with 57,000 locations. ChargePoint is using this investment to expand its network in North America and Europe. 
We are scanning the landscape for the next opportunity to lower 
our emissions, discover smarter and cleaner energy, and apply talent  
and expertise to push the boundaries of energy’s next frontier.
of our employees around the world 
will have a portion of their variable 
compensation tied to reducing  
GHG emissions intensity through our 
flaring and methane metrics~45,000
See Pages 35–36  for climate-related  
performance data.chevron.com/cr
10
0255075100Million cubic meters
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Upstream Reﬁning Otherreducing fresh water use
Our Upstream operations have reduced  
the amount of fresh water withdrawn from the 
environment by 25 percent since 2014.  
See Page 35  for more on Chevron’s water usage.learn more   chevron.com/watermanaging  
water resources
water is a societal, environmental  
and economic resource
Above:  Our Upstream operations reuse approximately 75 percent of the water that is 
brought to the surface when extracting oil and gas. In California (pictured) and Indonesia, 
we reuse this water by heating and reinjecting it into another well to enhance production processes, rather than using fresh water.Upstream Refining Otherchevron.com/cr
11reducing consumption through innovative  
water reuse practices
Our Upstream operations manage our water resources responsibly 
by reusing approximately 75 percent of the water brought to  
the surface when extracting oil and gas. In California and Indonesia, we reuse water by heating and reinjecting it into another well to enhance production processes, rather than using fresh water.  
In addition, most of our refineries around the world reuse treated wastewater at their locations. These and other practices enable  
us to reduce the amount of fresh water we consume.Our ability to partner with communities around the world and deliver affordable, reliable and cleaner energy depends on  
access to water. We employ management systems, processes  
and standards to manage this critical natural resource. 
To promote responsible management of water resources, we:
• Integrate water conservation and efficiency into our  
decision-making processes.
• Strive to conserve, reuse and recycle water in water-  
constrained areas.
• Use appropriate metrics to analyze water use.
• Engage with governments, partners, local communities  
and other stakeholders to protect water resources in  
areas where we operate.
• Build partnerships and participate in industry water  
resource initiatives to share and promote best practices,  
assist with the development of industry standards and  
shape relevant policy.
creating sustainable water use strategies
In Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil (TCO) developed a water use 
strategy that increased conservation, improved water recycling and enhanced the flexibility of the water system to meet local demand for potable water. To develop this strategy, TCO applied water system modeling and scenario analysis to evaluate water use in the region. Working in partnership with the regional water supplier, TCO analyzed infrastructure limitations, demand fluctuations and pricing issues that help ensure sustainable  
water use for the community, particularly in the summer months.  
Sharing TCO’s water management strategy and understanding regional issues have resulted in a valuable working relationship, benefiting both TCO and the regional population.
collaborating with conservation international  
to limit biodiversity risks
Working with Conservation International, Chevron sponsored the design and development of an online tool that identifies biodiversity risks to freshwater species. With the new freshwater component in the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool  
(IBAT), users can learn about native species, the risks they face  
and how their habitat is connected to sites where we operate.additional resources
chevron.com/waterpositionstatementwater use in  
well completions
In the Permian Basin, more than 99 percent of the  
water used in our well completions in 2018 was  
from nonfresh and recycled produced water sources.
100%
75%
50%
25%
0%
2015 2016 2018 2017fresh  
water99%+
nonfresh water used  
in well completions in  
2017 and 2018nonfresh  
water13
valuing diversity 
and inclusion 16
creating 
prosperity20
contributing to 
the united nations 
sustainable 
development goals22
respecting 
human rights
chevron.com/cr
12focusing on 
social issueslearn more   chevron.com/diversityvaluing diversity  
and inclusion
our people are our  
most valuable resource
Rhonda Morris, vice president  
and chief Human Resources officer, 
discusses diversity and inclusion  
with Lee Jourdan, chief diversity  
officer, and Brian Chase, manager of  
strategy and planning for the Office  
of Global Diversity.Q&A
Chevron’s commitment to  
diversity and inclusion 
includes a set of initiatives  
to ensure all employees  
are empowered to realize 
their full potential.
chevron.com/cr
14
A: Accountability is also vital to fostering 
a diverse and inclusive environment. It is 
fundamental to ensuring the proportion of women and minorities in leadership increases. We hold ourselves accountable in a variety of ways. For example, diversity action plans are required for nearly every employee, including the chairman, and are part of annual performance reviews. In addition, each major business unit has dedicated committees responsible for talent development and  
job selection.A: Attracting and developing individuals  
with different talents, ideas and experiences is needed in order to solve the world’s most complex problems and challenges. After 
launching The Chevron Way in 1995, we accel-erated our journey and developed programs  
to leverage the talents of our diverse workforce and create a culture of inclusion. Among our many initiatives, we’re proud to be the first oil and gas company to offer same-sex domestic partner and transgender benefits to our U.S. employees. We also developed mentoring and sponsorship initiatives, as well as programs  
to help employees manage work-life priorities.  
This includes more flexible schedules and support for dual-career couples employed  
by Chevron.
Q:   How does Chevron foster 
diversity and inclusion?
A: We’re making progress, but we’re always 
working to do more. We are proud that for the 14th consecutive year, we achieved a 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index—a rating focused on LGBTQ workplace equality. We are committed  
to providing equal pay for equal work. In the U.S., women and minorities at Chevron earn  
99.9 percent of what men and nonminorities  
are paid. However, we recognize there is  
more work to be done.Q:  How do you describe  
Chevron’s performance  
in this area?
2018 marked the 14th  
consecutive year  
we achieved a score of  
100 percent on the  
Human Rights Campaign 
Corporate Equality Index.100%
We were the first oil and  
gas company to offer  
same-sex domestic partner 
and transgender benefits  
to our U.S. employees.firstchevron.com/cr
15
“We’re making progress,  
but we’re always  
working to do more.” 
— Lee Jourdan  
Chief Diversity Officer
additional resources
chevron.com/culture
A: Our pipeline begins with investing in 
education with a focus on science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics. We actively recruit diverse candidates from industry and our many university partnerships. We have instituted dedicated personnel committees responsible for identifying and developing our diverse talent. Employees have the opportunity to participate in a mentoring program and  
more than 20,000 are involved in employee networks that provide support, advice and team-building. Chevron also has more than  
15 diversity councils across its business units that help management align diversity and inclusion efforts with business strategies. Q:  How does Chevron develop  
a diverse talent pipeline?
A: We hire the best and the brightest—  
ranging from college students who enter our internship program, to candidates with experience outside Chevron. Through our University Partnerships and Association Relations program, we work with colleges and universities to attract and develop talented students who will become the next generation of leaders and problem solvers. We also partner with more than 30 diversity-focused professional associations, provide scholarships to students every year and have supported historically black colleges and universities for more than 40 years.
A: We are continually looking for ways to 
improve and build a more inclusive culture through innovative programs. One key initiative is Men Advocating Real Change (MARC),  
which engages men as partners and advocates in supporting greater gender inclusion. This is especially important in our industry, where men make up nearly two-thirds of the workforce.  
We expect to have 17 active MARC chapters in  
11 countries with around 3,000 members by the end of 2019, with plans to launch 12 more over the next two years on six different continents. We believe MARC has the power to create a more gender-inclusive workplace, not just at Chevron, but across the entire industry.Q:  Is Chevron doing anything 
unique to improve diversity  
and inclusion? 
A: Our commitment to diversity and inclusion 
includes our C-suite. In 2018, Mike Wirth and 
the leadership team held the first meeting with our Inclusion Council. This gave 12 employee network leaders representing the wide diversity of our workforce the opportunity to discuss diversity and inclusion issues at the highest levels  
of the company. We also launched our Inclusive Leaders Learning Series to equip leaders with  
practical tools to create a more inclusive work  
environment. More than 1,000 leaders partici-pated in these sessions, and we will expand the program even further in 2019. chevron.com/cr
16learn more   chevron.com/creatingprosperitycreating  
prosperity
we believe our business  
succeeds best when  
our communities succeedchevron.com/cr
17
Previous page:  Chevron’s Songkhla Old Town Renovation Project is committed to 
helping local businesses, such as this confectionery store in Songkhla, Thailand.  
The initiative aims to draw local and international visitors to Songkhla Old Town by  
reviving the recently deserted neighborhood into a tourist hot spot, helping existing 
local businesses and opening doors for new enterprises. Chevron has operated at  
the Songkhla shore base since 1981. The company strives to drive economic and social  
development in Songkhla Province, develop quality of life and empower people in  
the local communities.Above:  Drill Site Manager Gulzhan Abdukalikova is seen here working in the Tengiz 
Field. Abdukalikova is employed by one of our partners, Fircroft Engineering Services Limited, in Kazakhstan.
Our work has made human progress a reality for millions of  
people in the communities where we operate by helping to reduce 
poverty, drive economic and social opportunity, and enable the benefits of modern life. We focus on building local capacity  
and making social investments that help communities succeed.
building local capacity
Chevron’s supply chain and workforce investments help develop the skills and capabilities needed to boost local economies and incomes for years to come. In 2018, we spent $25.1 billion on total goods and services, much of it on “local content” with companies based in the countries where we operate. We also complement  
this spending with investments of time and technical capabilities  
to help build the capacity of these local companies. 
Investing in Kazakhstan 
By developing and utilizing local goods and services, Tengizchevroil (TCO) helps drive Kazakhstan’s economic development. In 2018, TCO spent more than $3.5 billion with local businesses.In the past five years, Chevron  
has spent $154 billion globally on 
goods and services, helping  
grow economies, create jobs and  
develop workforces.  
See Page 38 for more information on  
our goods and services spending.$154 billion 
spent
In addition to spending on local goods and services, TCO  
also engages our strategic partners, such as Schlumberger, Weatherford, KISCO and Compass ESS, to support local development. In 2018, we supported local manufacturers that produce G-type cement, railcar sulfur covers and industrial chemicals. These local content partnerships not only improved community development and lowered costs, but they enable  
a more responsive supply chain.
local economic impact
Chevron’s Pascagoula Refinery in Mississippi generated a direct economic impact of more than $925 million in 2018. As Jackson County’s largest taxpayer, the refinery contributed $20.5 million in property taxes to the county and $26.8 million to the Pascagoula-Gautier School District for 2018.In 2018, TCO spent more  
than $3.5 billion on  
local goods and services.$3.5 billion+chevron.com/cr
18partnership with pact 
improves lives
Over the past 16 years, Chevron’s partnership with  
Pact, one of the longest-serving international NGOs  
in Myanmar, has improved the lives of more than  
1.25 million adults and children through improved  
access to health care, sanitation and electricity, 
microfinance training for women, and the establish-
ment of more than 1,400 village development  
funds. Chevron’s $9 million commitment catalyzed  
an additional $10 million from other organizations.
Above:  NDPI works with cassava farmers, such as Kingsley Ojeah (pictured),  
to improve their practices, facilitate the adoption of new technologies, improve 
efficiencies and grow their businesses.
health
Almost 19,000 
malnourished children 
improved weightMore than 850,000 
people have improved 
access to health care
natural resource  
management
More than 240,000 
people have improved 
access to electricity339 villages  
use solar lamppostsAlmost 15,500  
women meet weekly  
in savings groups1,476 village 
development funds 
have been establishedlivelihoods
social investment
By partnering with host governments, NGOs, and public and 
private international organizations, our social investments can achieve our common goals and improve the quality of life in communities where we work. We focus on economic development, health and education.
Economic development
Our investments in economic development span the globe, including partnerships in communities as diverse as the Niger Delta, Myanmar, New Mexico and Appalachia. 
The Niger Delta Partnership Initiative (NDPI) helps break the  
cycle of poverty and conflict by creating strong and stable 
communities. We work at the intersection of economic develop-
ment and peace because one cannot thrive without the other. Thanks to the NDPI, we have driven investment of more than  
$100 million within the delta, grown our local peace network to more than 7,000 members, facilitated the creation of more  
than 8,000 jobs and increased farmers’ income by $28 million. The NDPI also complements Chevron’s community empowerment program, known as the Global Memorandum of Understanding,  
in its neighboring communities.
Health
Chevron invests in programs aimed at improving health to unlock progress and prosperity in the communities where we operate. Over the past six years, Chevron and CrescentCare’s NO/AIDS Task Force have partnered to strengthen HIV/AIDS prevention, education and care in the greater New Orleans area. We support multiple programs, such as the mobile CareVan, which provides testing and education at various events throughout New Orleans. CrescentCare tests around 500 individuals annually in the medical mobile unit, which is powered and maintained by Chevron.chevron.com/cr
19volunteerism and giving
274,200+
U.S. volunteer hours
In the United States, Chevron encourages employee 
and retiree volunteerism and giving through Chevron Humankind. In 2018, 7,301 employees and retirees contributed 274,217 volunteer hours to 2,185 charitable organizations in the United States, and contributed 
$35.2 million to U.S. nonprofit organi  za tions through 
a combination of employee and retiree giving and 
company-matching funds.Above:  The plight of a young sports team trapped in the flooded caves of Chiang Rai, 
Thailand, captured the world’s attention during summer of 2018. Sixteen Chevron 
employees and 18 contractors mobilized to the cave site and were supported by nearly 100 employees and contractors working remotely around the clock as part of the Emergency Management team. Within 24 hours of the Thai Navy SEALs’ request for resources, Chevron committed hundreds of oxygen tanks, dozens of tank packs and several gas detectors to monitor air quality in various cave chambers.
additional resources
chevron.com/economicdevelopment
chevron.com/health
chevron.com/education
Education 
We develop innovative education programs that help nurture  
and position the next generation of problem solvers to tackle  
the most complex challenges of the future.
Chevron’s support for education has exceeded $480 million 
worldwide since 2013. Our Fuel Your School (FYS) program supports public education in local communities by helping  
teachers and students get the classroom supplies they need. During 2018 in the United States, FYS helped fund more than  
$5.7 million for classroom projects in 2,883 public schools, benefiting nearly 800,000 students. We also extended the program into Latin America, helping provide local teachers  
with the tools to prepare students for the jobs of the future. Meanwhile, in Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines, Hong Kong  
and Singapore, FYS benefited approximately 43,000 people. In these countries, employees, family members, retailers and business partners recorded almost 1,400 volunteer hours.
bolstering STEM education
thailand partnership initiative
The Thailand Partnership Initiative, locally known as the Chevron 
Enjoy Science Project, is a five-year, $30 million public-private partnership to strengthen Thailand’s economic competitiveness  
and innovation. It promotes and improves vocational and science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) education. The project  
has greatly exceeded its five-year targets for number of students reached (1.38 million vs. 425,000) and community members reached (615,000 vs. 31,700). In terms of teaching practices, the results are just as impressive: a benchmark study found that in all metrics, program teachers delivered better-quality output than their peers.
appalachia partnership initiative
Our Appalachian business unit works with the nonprofit organi  zation 
Project Lead The Way (PLTW) to support educational programs in southwestern Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia and eastern Ohio. PLTW provides transformative learning experiences for pre-K through 12th-grade students and teachers through curriculum and professional development in computer science, engineering and biomedical science.
Chevron’s support of PLTW in the Pennsylvania/Ohio/West Virginia  
region forms part of its Appalachia Partnership Initiative, a long-  
term, $20 million social investment that addresses educational and 
work force development challenges. To date, Chevron has provided 
more than $3.5 million in grants to sustain existing programs and imple  mented new PLTW initiatives in 107 elementary, middle and  
high schools.chevron.com/cr
20
Chevron is proud of its efforts to contribute to the  
United Nations Sustainable Development  
Goals (SDGs). Chevron safely develops and delivers  
the affordable, reliable and cleaner energy  
that is necessary for social and economic progress.contributing to the  
united nations sustainable 
development goals
learn more   chevron.com/SDGs
our contribution to  
meeting SDG 7
Energy is critical for creating opportunity for all people. Emerging 
countries need affordable, reliable and cleaner energy to create jobs, provide access to health and education, and improve lives. Chevron plays a vital role in helping meet the world’s energy needs by improving energy access, increasing energy efficiency and supporting sustainable energy technologies. Our partnership with Pact in Myanmar (see statistical infographic on Page 18 ) has helped 
supply solar-powered lights to more than 10,000 house holds  
and connected more than 240,000 people to energy through solar home systems and electrified communal locations.
ensure access to 
affordable, reliable, sustainable and  modern energy  
for all
Above:  A local resident of the Mway Pon Kan South village outside her home. The village is 
one of many in Myanmar to enjoy the benefits of new solar home systems. Small business 
owners are reporting greater productivity and efficiencies in their operations, while children  
are enjoying extended hours of education through improved energy access.chevron.com/cr
21
In Australia, we partnered with Telethon 
Speech & Hearing to improve ear health among aboriginal children, increasing school readiness and engagement across the West Pilbara.  
Since the partnership began in 2011, the  
number of aboriginal children under the age  
of 7 affected by middle-ear diseases in the Pilbara has dropped from 51 to 33 percent.
chevron.com/creatingprosperityaustralia
In Myanmar, our funding of Pact’s health 
programs empowered communities to adopt behaviors to improve their health status and increase access to livelihood opportunities. Through these partnerships, the programs reached more than 1.25 million people in the  
Dry Zone region of Myanmar, and trained  
more than 12,400 village-based volunteers, known as change agents, who now serve  
as health volunteers and village development fund managers. Of these change agents,  
9,200 health volunteers were specially  
trained to detect, refer and treat cases of tuberculosis, malaria and childhood illnesses.
chevron.com/creatingprosperitymyanmarIn 2016, Chevron Philippines launched the Caltex 
Training in Occupational Opportunities for Life Skills, or the Caltex TOOLS project. Caltex TOOLS provides world-class skills training in welding and scaffolding to disadvantaged youth from the host community of San Pascual, Batangas, where demand for these skills is high. Training is based on international standards to create highly skilled workers who will satisfy those demands. The program has a 95 percent passing rate and a 100 percent employment rate after graduation. Caltex TOOLS not only provides technical training to the scholars, but it also includes financial-management sessions to equip graduates with a well-rounded skillset.
chevron.com/creatingprosperityphilippinesThe Jibika project, part of the Bangladesh 
Partnership Initiative (BPI), was launched in  
2015 to promote entrepreneurship and 
sustainable income among poor and margin-
alized farming households located near  
our operations.
chevron.com/creatingprosperitybangladeshpromote sustained, 
inclusive and sus-  
tainable economic growth, full and  
productive employ-ment and decent work for allour contribution to 
meeting SDG 3our contribution to meeting SDG 4our contribution to meeting SDG 8
ensure healthy  
lives and promote 
well-being for all  
at all agesensure inclusive  
and equitable  
quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities  
for allWe also contribute to the SDGs through our work in  
protecting people and the environment and through our  
investments in health, education and economic development. 
Here are some examples from across our company.
BPI jibika project
successes have included the following: 
106 village developme nt organizations (VDOs) 
have registered a s cooperatives
Wome n make up 58 percent o f those wh o se rve 
on VD O executive committees
Nearly 780 wome n received l eadership t raining
Nearl
y 2,000 m icro-entrepreneurs ar e 
s
up
ported with training and access to financing
70 high-yielding plots have bee n  
established an d dem onstrated
44 h
ealth workers have bee n trainedrespecting  
human rights
enabling human progress begins with  
respecting human rights 
learn more   chevron.com/humanrights
chevron.com/cr
23which is aligned with Canada’s constitution and existing legislation, 
Chevron policies, and industry best practices.
A multifunctional working group manages the IRP, with over-
sight provided by a steering committee composed of senior management. Success is measured against multiyear performance goals in indigenous employment and training, supplies and services procurement, social investment, environmental stewardship, and engagement.
In acknowledgment that reconciliation can only begin with a 
recognition of the past, indigenous awareness training for all CBU staff is one of our performance goals.
hearing and addressing community concerns  
across our company
Chevron operates in many countries with one approach: we put people at the center of all we do and make human rights a priority. That approach is consistent from Kazakhstan to Bangladesh to  
the United States. 
United States
In 2016, Chevron’s Pascagoula Refinery implemented a com-munity complaint process, which provides an avenue for individuals in the surrounding areas to call the refinery if they  
have an environmental complaint. Scenario-based training, involving refinery leadership and local agencies, is held to test  
and evaluate processes and procedures. To read a feature on  
the initiative, visit chevron.com/pascagoula .
Bangladesh The Bangladesh Profit Center (BPC) operates a community grievance mechanism that enables neighboring communities to report their complaints and concerns, which in turn enables the BPC to address community grievances in a timely, transparent manner, with resolution occurring because of collective efforts. 
Kazakhstan 
Tengizchevroil (TCO), a Chevron-operated entity in Kazakhstan, was one of the first Chevron business units to develop a grievance mechanism. TCO receives community input on its existing operations and major capital projects, including the next phase of TCO expansion, the Future Growth Project. After consulting with communities about the most effective manner for receiving their grievances, TCO implemented email, mail and comment box mechanisms, as well as Kazakhstan’s first toll-free telephone line. 
For a summary of Chevron’s Grievance Mechanism Guidance, visit  
chevron.com/grievancemechanism .Chevron’s Human Rights Policy complies with international 
standards, including the United Nations Guiding Principles  
on Business and Human Rights, the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour  
Organi  zation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights  
at Work, that are applicable to business. We expect our busi-
ness partners to demonstrate their respect for human rights by complying with these standards.
Chevron supports the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of 
Indigenous Peoples and is committed to working with indigenous communities in a way that respects their history, culture and customs, within applicable legal and constitutional frameworks.
protecting the rights of indigenous peoples
Canada Building mutually meaningful and beneficial relationships with  
the more than 40 indigenous groups with whom the Chevron Canada business unit (CBU) partners is consistent with our Chevron Way values. To enable a strategic, comprehensive and transparent approach to these critical relationships, the CBU developed its Indigenous Relations Policy (IRP). Employees and contractors are expected to support and implement the IRP,  Respect for human rights is 
foundational to who  
we are and our purpose of 
enabling human progress.  
This approach applies  
to all our employees and 
contractors and requires 
ongoing, proactive two-way 
communication with  
community members in 
operating and project areas.
Previous page:  Access to education is a fundamental human right and enables 
human progress. Since 2006, Chevron has provided merit-based scholarships  
for financially disadvantaged high school students in its gas-field communities in 
Bangladesh. In 2018, 63 percent of those scholarship recipients were girls.chevron.com/cr
24chevron human rights policy 520
chevron.com/cr
24employees
We treat all of our  
employees with respect  
and dignity, and  
promote diversity in  
the workplace.security
We protect personnel,  
assets and provide  
a secure environment for 
business operations.communities
We engage the  
community in two-way, 
ongoing consultation  
to build trust.suppliers
We expect our suppliers 
to adhere to all applicable 
domestic laws as well as 
the International Labour 
Organization’s Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work.
We engage with key suppliers to 
reinforce awareness of potential human rights issues such as:
•  Working and living  
conditions
• Forced labor 
• Child labor 
• Trafficking
• Conflict mineralsWe build upon our understanding 
of human rights issues in our operating and project areas as  
it relates to:
•  Indigenous peoples 
•  Resettlement
•  Grievances 
•  Livelihoods 
•  Environmental mattersWe conduct our operations 
and execute our projects in accordance with the Voluntary Principles on Security and  
Human Rights.Our company policies and  
procedures adhere to all appli-cable domestic laws and are consistent with core international labor principles, including:
•  Freedom of association and 
collective bargaining
•  Nondiscrimination at  
the workplace
•  Decent working and  
living conditionsour focus areas
additional resources
chevron.com/CAsupplychainsactensuring secure operating environments 
Chevron’s Human Rights Policy ensures that we are especially 
cognizant of potential human rights issues in sensitive operating environments. We comply with the Voluntary Principles on  
Security and Human Rights (the Voluntary Principles), designed  
to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of  
their operations within a framework that encourages respect for human rights.
Myanmar
In Yangon and Naypyidaw, Myanmar, Chevron participated  
in workshops on the Voluntary Principles. The workshops were coordinated by the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business. Representatives from government agencies, NGOs and private security companies attended.
Chevron’s standard security services contracts incorporate  
the company’s expectations regarding training on the Voluntary 
Principles, background screening of contract personnel,  and investigation of allegations of security and human rights incidents. The company’s contracts also reserve the right for Chevron to audit contracting companies to determine whether they adhere to these and other requirements.focusing on  
governance  
issues
26
getting results 
the right way28
prioritizing our 
culture of 
operational 
excellence30
operating safely 
and reliably32
engaging our 
stakeholders
chevron.com/cr
25focusing on 
governance issueschevron.com/cr
26overall board diversity44%chevron is committed  
to strong governance and the  
highest standards of ethics
governance
At Chevron, good corporate governance means having 
structures and processes in place to ensure that our decisions and actions advance the best interests of shareholders. Our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance departments enable us to be responsive to shareholders while engaging with investors to discuss operational, financial, governance, executive compensation, environmental, safety, social and policy issues. Fostering long-term relationships and maintaining shareholder trust and goodwill are core Chevron objectives.
board of directors
Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business and affairs. One of the Board’s primary duties is to oversee Chevron’s policies and practices to ensure that appropriate risk management systems are employed throughout the company.  The Board regularly considers critical risk topics through its normal business and Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management process.  
For example, it annually reviews financial, operational, market, political and other risks. 
The Board has four standing committees, each composed solely of 
independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public Policy. Each committee learn more   chevron.com/corporategovernance  getting results  
the right way
a diverse board of  
directors helps us  
navigate the world’s 
energy transition
including 36 percent women and  
36 percent ethnically diverse memberschevron.com/cr
27fulfills important responsibilities to help Chevron manage risks  
and build long-term shareholder value. For example, the Public 
Policy Committee assists the Board in overseeing risks that  
may arise in connection with the social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business.
The Executive Committee is composed of corporate officers 
chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in managing the company’s business. The Executive Committee  
has established five subcommittees that specialize in various matters important to the company, including strategy and compliance. One subcommittee, the Global Issues Committee, oversees strategic corporate responsibility issues including  
human capital management. 
Director nomination process
An experienced, talented and diverse board helps us drive innovation and solve some of the world’s most complex energy challenges. In identifying Director nominees, the Board Nominating and Governance Committee focuses on maintaining a balance of  
knowledge and experience across relevant disciplines. The com-mittee considers experience and expertise relating to leadership; environmental policy; science; technology; engineering; research or academia; governmental, regulatory, legal or public policy; finance; and global business or international affairs. The Board also seeks to achieve diversity of age, gender and ethnicity, and recognizes the need to bring in fresh thinking, as demonstrated  
by our current average Board tenure of less than five years.
U.S. political activities 
Chevron engages with the executive branch, Congress and  
state officials to provide perspective on energy issues. We lobby ethically, constructively and in a nonpartisan manner. Chevron engages in the public policy process through direct and indirect lobbying and by participating in a diverse range of business and policy organizations that advocate positions designed to support free markets and fair, responsible energy policies. 
Chevron does not agree with every position of every industry,  
trade or policy organization in which we participate. At the  
same time, Chevron believes that continuous participation with  
these organizations provides the best opportunity to shape their 
positions to align with our values. On an annual basis, the Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the policies, procedures and expenditures for Chevron’s political activities, including political contributions and direct and indirect lobbying.
For more information about Chevron’s political contributions  
and trade association activities, visit chevron.com/
politicalcontributions .
additional resources
chevron.com/ESGreportingbusiness ethics
Strong financial results and an outstanding safety  
record were hallmarks of our performance in 2018.  
These successes were achieved through a commit-
ment to The Chevron Way values:
diversity and inclusion
 We learn from and respect the cultures in which we 
operate. We have an inclusive work environment  that values the uniqueness and diversity of individual talents, experiences and ideas.
high performance
We are passionate about delivering results, and  
strive to continually improve. We hold ourselves accountable for our actions and outcomes. We apply proven processes in a fit-for-purpose manner  and always look for innovative and agile solutions.
integrity and trust
We are honest with ourselves and others, and honor 
our commitments. We trust, respect and support  each other. We earn the trust of our colleagues and partners by operating with the highest ethical standards in all we do.
partnership
We build trusting and mutually beneficial relationships 
by collaborating with our communities, governments, customers, suppliers and other business partners. We are most successful when our partners succeed with us.
protecting people and the environment
We place the highest priority on the health and 
safety of our work  force and protection of our assets, 
communities and the environment. We deliver  
world-class performance with a focus on preventing high-consequence incidents.
These values are the foundation of our culture.  
For more, visit  chevron.com/chevronway .learn more   chevron.com/OEprioritizing our  
culture of operational 
excellence
we manage health, safety and  
environmental risks
chevron.com/cr
28chevron.com/cr
29additional resources
chevron.com/OEMS
chevron.com/healthsafetyChevron values its culture of Operational Excellence (OE), which 
places the highest priority on the safety and health of our workforce while protecting communities, the environment and our assets. Our OE objectives and performance expectations guide us. They address workforce safety and health, process safety, reliability and integrity, the environment, efficiency, security, and stakeholders. We recognize that managing risk requires constant vigilance and companywide dedication across our global operations. 
In 2004, we established the Operational Excellence Management 
System (OEMS) to manage health, safety and environmental risks. The OEMS enables us to assess risks, identify safeguards to mitigate them and implement programs to assure these safeguards are effective. In 2018, we updated the OEMS to be more specific in how we determine, implement and sustain safeguards, further emphasizing the key role leaders play in achieving OE results.
improving employee safeguards
Employee safeguards are intended to eliminate fatalities, serious 
injuries and operational incidents. In 2018, we re-educated our  
workforce about safeguards—what they are, how we determine whether they are sufficient and how we assure their continual 
prac  tice. We improved visual depictions of safeguards to help our  
work force understand how they help us manage risk. We intro-  
duced mobile verification apps designed to help frontline workers  
confirm that appropriate safeguards are in place and verified 
before the start of high-risk work. All of our updated and new systems are developed through a human performance lens  
(see Page 39 ), with the goal of reducing human errors.managing risk in operational  
excellence focus areas
Our Operational Excellence Management System 
enables us to systematically manage risk and comply with legal requirements across the following OE  
focus areas:
environment efficiency
workforce  
safety  
and health
Eliminate fatalities, serious 
injuries and illnessesprocess safety, 
reliability  
and integrity
Eliminate high-consequence 
process safety incidents  
and operate with industry- 
leading reliability
Assess and manage significant 
environmental risksUse energy and  
resources efficiently
security
Prevent high-consequence 
security and  
cybersecurity incidentsstakeholders
Address OE business  
risks through stakeholder 
engagement and issues 
management
Previous page:  In 2018, we re-educated our Upstream workforce about safeguards—
what they are, how we determine whether they are sufficient and how we assure  
their continual practice. Colleagues pictured here on our Mafumeira Sul Project, off 
the coast of Cabinda province in Angola, took part in that initiative.creating new standards for risk 
reduction at our facilities
Half of Chevron’s global production comes from 14 facilities 
on five continents. Identifying common characteristics of how these plants are built and how they operate provides us with opportunities to reduce operating and safety risks. In 2017, we formed the Complex Process Facilities (CPF) organization to improve performance in these facilities in process safety, reliability and integrity, and turnaround planning and execution. In 2018, the CPF organization deployed new protocols to respond to unplanned or uncontrolled leaks. Unless addressed properly, these incidents can potentially escalate, resulting  
in risks to people and the environment. The new standard will  
help ensure that the right people and guidelines are in place to help decision makers respond effectively and rapidly to a potential or an actual leak.learn more   chevron.com/healthsafetyoperating safely  
and reliably
we are committed to keeping  
our people, our partners  
and the environment safe
chevron.com/cr
30chevron.com/cr
31The Chevron Way’s emphasis on protecting people and the 
environment drives our commitment to operating safely and reliably. Programs like Essentials Checklists in our Downstream business and Save Your Life Actions in our Upstream business  
help ensure strong safeguards are in place and functioning properly before work begins . 
Thanks to these programs and a deep respect for our safety culture, our 2018 OE performance was the best on record.  
We matched or outperformed all but one of our targets and set new record lows in our Total Recordable Incident and Motor  
Vehicle Crash rates.
Previous page:  Our Operational Excellence Management System provides  
a structure to identify risks, strengthen safety capabilities and reduce potential 
impacts should an incident occur. Colleagues are pictured being safely transferred from vessels at the end of a work shift in the Agbami Field, offshore Nigeria.creating a culture  
of learning:  
everyone has a voice
Organizational Learning is an integral part of 
our OEMS.  Through Organizational Learning, we 
identify problems, share ideas to solve them and find safeguards to prevent risks. We have adopted industry-recognized human performance tools  
to help leaders promote open communication on safety issues and establish a culture of learning.
One of those tools is Learning Teams, which brings 
together workers and creates a shared under-  
stand  ing of how specific jobs get done in the field.  
This makes it easier for the teams to understand the 
complexity of each worker’s tasks. When operational knowledge is shared, the Learning Teams discover strengths and potential vulnerabilities, all of which inform how we might enhance safeguards. 
additional resources
chevron.com/OEkeeping people safe
Our Operational Excellence Management  
System (OEMS) provides a rigorous structure to identify risks, strengthen safety capabilities  
and reduce potential impacts should an incident occur.  To improve operational performance  
and keep people safe, we analyze safeguards to test vulnerabilities in human judgment and evaluate equipment that is subject to degradation over time.
We provide training on physical factors that affect 
performance, like fatigue, stress and di strac  tions.  
To further improve performance, we provide resources 
that enhance the design and layout of work areas.
2018 marks our best year  
on record in health,  
environment and safety.record safetywe are committed to working the  
right and responsible wayengaging  
our stakeholders
insights5
read the latest on chevron 
actions to safeguard against 
risk and operate the  
right and responsible way 
In this feature, Dave Payne, vice 
president, Health, Environment and Safety, speaks with Lina Saenz (left),  
Risk Management advisor, and  
Sucheta Tiwari, Stakeholder Engage-ment advisor, about Chevron’s new approach to stakeholder engagement.learn more   chevron.com/OEchevron.com/cr
33
As part of our day-to-day work, we contin  u ously  
engage local, regional and national governments,  
communities, international development 
organi  zations, and business leaders to identify 
emerging issues and policy trends. We par-
ti ci pate in multiple industry and business 
associations and benefit from memberships 
with policy think tanks and forums. We also use data analytics to monitor and assess public perceptions about our company and industry.
5.  How does Chevron track and 
analyze elements that might signal change, such as potential policy developments?
In each business unit, a leadership-level  
com  mit  tee helps prioritize the social, political 
and reputational issues that emerge from  
these various inputs. At the enterprise level, 
there is a commit tee composed of executive 
leaders to address these ongoing and emerging policy issues.
additional resources
chevron.com/OEMSMost business units already have processes  to request and respond to stakeholder feedback in a timely manner, but we added a grievance mechanism requirement in line with industry best practices. We also formalized how we communicate with our colleagues running day-to-day operations. This ensures we have the right safeguards in place to prevent and mitigate OE risks to our business and potential impacts to communities. For example, new traffic management plans have been created based on conversations that happened as a result of this process. It has led to a better understanding  
of community impacts with our operations team.4.  The SEIM process has undergone 
changes in the past 12 months. Tell us about the business impact of the changes and the process.
We recently updated our standardized, risk-
based approach to managing Operational Excellence (OE)—or health, environment and safety—risk. As part of the update, we looked at how we engage with our stakeholders. We streamlined two related processes into one—the new Stakeholder Engagement and Issues Management (SEIM) process. This helps business units identify, assess, prioritize and manage OE risk holistically, while thoughtfully considering likely stakeholders’ perceptions. Potential social, community, political and reputational risks and management strategies are identified throughout the process.1.  Tell us about risk management 
and stakeholder engagement  
at Chevron.
In many ways, we’re strengthening our current 
behaviors. The SEIM process operationalizes  
our Chevron Way values such as trust, partner-ship and protecting people by designing our stakeholder engagement systems around them. We also provided a new mechanism designed to anticipate potential community impact throughout an asset’s lifecycle. This will help us proactively manage community concerns, grievances and expectations.2.  What behaviors will make the 
SEIM’s application a success?
Business units create a prioritized risk profile 
that integrates all the OEMS focus areas—workforce safety and health, process safety, reliability and integrity, environment, efficiency, security, and stakeholders. The integrated profile builds a common understanding of all risk, but also helps us highlight the stakeholder-related risk and measures designed to prevent  
incidents and mitigate consequences. Signifi-cant stakeholder risks are reported through our Enterprise Risk Management process, which presents an overview to the corporate-level leadership team and Board of Directors.3.  How are stakeholders’ risks 
integrated with other OE risks?performance 
data and additional 
information
35
performance 
data40
additional 
information
chevron.com/cr
34chevron.com/cr
35performance data
these tables include our quantitative  
environmental, safety and social performance data
For complete reporting, including performance data,  
visit chevron.com/2018performancetables. 
To create customized charts and tables using our performance  
data, visit chevron.com/ESGchartgenerator.
footnotes are on Pages 40–41Environmental performance  1 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Accidental release prevention and response
Petroleum spills to land and water (volume in thousand barrels) 2 1.4 3.4 0.7 0.8 0.8
Total volume recovered 1.1 3.1 0.3 0.6 0.4
Petroleum spills to land and water (number of spills) 267 59 62 63 79
Spills of significance (number of spills) 36 12 8 14
Natural resources – water
Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 471 74 80 78 85
Fresh water consumed (million cubic meters) 470 73 79 77
Nonfresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 439 41 36 43 41
Wastewater
Average oil concentration in discharges to surface water (parts per million) 5
Upstream 7 8 9 10 9
Refining 1 1 1 1 1
Total amount of oil discharged to surface water (thousand metric tons) 5
Upstream 0.7 0.9 1.2 1.3 1.3
Refining 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.05
Greenhouse gas
Equity basis
Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), equity basis 
(million metric tons of CO 2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8 59 57 58 58 56
GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2),  equity basis (million metric tons of CO
2-equivalent) 6, 8 4 3 4 4 5
GHG emissions from exported electricity and steam, equity basis  4 4 4 5 5
GHG emissions from third-party use of our products, equity basis  396 376 364 368 358
Operated basis
Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis 
(million metric tons of CO 2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8 66 64 64 66 66
GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2),  operated basis (million metric tons of CO
2-equivalent) 6, 8 5 5 6 6 6(a type of Scope 3 emissions) (million metric tons of CO 2-equivalent) 6, 8
(a type of Scope 3 emissions) (million metric tons of CO 2) 6, 9chevron.com/cr
36Environmental performance ,1 continued 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Operated basis, continued
Methane emissions, direct, operated basis  
(million metric tons of CO 2-equivalent) 8 4 4 6 6 6
Upstream GHG emissions intensity, direct, operated basis  
(metric tons of CO 2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels of oil-equivalent production) 8 30 31 33 34 34
Upstream direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis  (million metric tons of CO
2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8 47 46 45 47 47
Refining GHG emissions intensity, direct, operated basis (metric tons of  CO
2-equivalent per 1,000 barrels of crude oil and other refinery feed) 8 35 35 36 35 37
Refining direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis  (million metric tons of CO
2-equivalent) 6, 7, 8 15 15 15 15 15
Average flare gas volume rate, direct, operated basis  (million standard cubic feet per day) 
10 467 556 625 615 563
Energy efficiency
Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated  
joint-venture refineries (trillion BTUs)  11 922 820 830 865 920
Total energy consumption, operated assets 760 664 671 711 744
Total energy consumption, operated assets and nonoperated  joint-venture refineries (million gigajoules)  
11 973 865 876 913 970
Total energy consumption, operated assets 802 701 708 750 785
Manufacturing Energy Index (Refining) (no units)  1185.0  85.0 84.6 85.2 87.6
Upstream Energy Intensity (thousand BTUs per barrel of oil-equivalent)  11349  303 308 330 341
Pipeline Energy Intensity (BTUs per barrel of oil-equivalent-mile)  1111 13 20 24 29
Shipping Energy Intensity (BTUs per metric ton–mile) 1175 70 43 32 49
Non-Manufacturing Energy Index (Oronite, Lubricants, etc.) (no units) 1174 75 75 79 86
Air emissions
Total volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted (thousand metric tons) 12101 139 147 144 134
Total sulfur oxides (SO x) emitted (thousand metric tons) 1240 52 66 84 112
Total nitrogen oxides (NO x) emitted (thousand metric tons) 12142 147 148 148 138
Waste
Hazardous waste generated (million metric tons)  130.4 0.4 0.6 0.7 1.0
Hazardous waste disposed of (million metric tons) 130.3 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.8
Hazardous waste recycled (million metric tons)  130.2 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.1
Fines and settlements
Number of environmental, health and safety fines paid and settlements  
entered into, equity basis  14 58 102 102 135 292
Cost of environmental, health and safety fines paid and settlements entered into, equity basis (millions of dollars)  
14 $6.4 $40.5 $6.7 $3.9 $57.1
footnotes are on Pages 40–41chevron.com/cr
37footnotes are on Pages 40–41U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission statistics  152018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Percent women among total employees 31 30 30 30 30
Percent minorities among total employees 41 39 38 37 36
Asian 14 13 13 13 12
Latino 16 15 14 13 13
Black 8 8 8 8 8
Other 3 3 3 3 2
Percent women among executives and senior managers 22 19 18 17 16
Percent minorities among executives and senior managers 19 16 13 13 12
Asian 9 7 6 6 5
Latino 6 5 4 5 4
Black 3 3 3 2 2
Other 0.9 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.5
Percent women among first- and mid-level managers 30 29 29 28 29
Percent minorities among first- and mid-level managers 33 32 30 29 29
Asian 12 12 12 12 11
Latino 12 12 11 9 9
Black 7 7 6 7 7
Other 1 1 2 2 1
Percent women among professionals 33 33 33 33 32
Percent minorities among professionals 36 35 35 35 34
Asian 16 16 16 15 14
Latino 11 11 10 10 10
Black 7 7 7 8 8
Other 2 2 2 2 2chevron.com/cr
38Global employee diversity  152018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Number of regular employees at year-end 45,047 48,456 51,953 58,178 61,456
Number of service station employees at year-end 3,591 3,298 3,248 3,316 3,259
Number of U.S. employees at year-end 21,465 22,048 23,418 26,448 28,666
Percent U.S. employees represented by unions 11 11 11 10 10
Percent women represented in total workforce 25 25 24 24 25
Percent women represented at mid-level management 19 19 18 17 16
Percent women represented at senior leadership 19 18 16 16 16
Percent women represented at executive leadership 16 14 14 15 16
Percent women and non-Caucasian men represented at senior executive levels 36 34 31 31 31
Percent employees working in their home country 96 95 94 93 92
Percent workforce in North America 47 44 45 45 46
Percent workforce in Asia-Pacific 28 28 28 29 29
Percent workforce in Africa 11 14 14 13 13
Percent workforce in Europe/Middle East 9 8 7 7 6
Percent workforce in South America 4 3 4 4 4
footnotes are on Pages 40–41Supply chain  16, 172018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Total goods and services spending (billions of dollars) $25.1 $24.8 $27.3 $35.8 $40.9
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based businesses (billions of dollars) $11.6 $11.2 $10.7 $13.5 $15.4
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based small businesses (billions of dollars) $1.7 $1.6 $1.7 $2.1 $2.3
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based  
woman- and minority-owned businesses (billions of dollars)$0.7 $0.6 $0.5 $0.7 $0.9chevron.com/cr
39Health and safety performance  182018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Total Recordable Incident Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours)  19
Workforce 0.128 0.13 0.14 0.18 0.18
Benchmark 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.23 0.33
Employees 0.075 0.09 0.10 0.10 0.10
Benchmark 0.21 0.23 0.24 0.24 0.28
Contractors 0.145 0.15 0.16 0.20 0.21
Benchmark 0.28 0.28 0.27 0.22 0.36
Lost-Time Incident Frequency (Days Away From Work incidents and fatalities per million work-hours)  19
Workforce 0.016 0.09 0.10 0.10 0.11
Benchmark 0.30 0.25 0.28 0.28 0.36
Employees   0.013 0.08 0.10 0.10 0.06
Benchmark 0.33 0.28 0.32 0.38 0.39
Contractors 0.017 0.10 0.11 0.10 0.12
Benchmark 0.29 0.23 0.25 0.23 0.35
Days Away From Work Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours) 19
Workforce 0.016 0.016 0.017 0.019 0.021
Benchmark 0.060 0.048 0.051 0.054 0.070
Employees 0.013 0.012 0.018 0.020 0.011
Benchmark 0.065 0.054 0.063 0.075 0.077
Contractors 0.017 0.018 0.016 0.018 0.023
Benchmark 0.058 0.045 0.044 0.044 0.067
Number of work-related fatalities
Workforce 0 6 10 3 3
Employees 0 2 1 0 0
Contractors 0 4 9 3 3
Work-related fatal accident rate (work-related employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours)  19
Workforce 0.00 1.32 2.03 0.51 0.49
Benchmark 0.27 0.85 2.23 0.63 0.78
Employees 0.00 1.77 0.82 0.00 0.00
Contractors 0.00 1.17 2.44 0.67 0.63
Work-related fatal incident rate (work-related incidents with employee or contractor 
fatalities per 100 million work-hours)0.00 1.32 0.81 0.51 0.49
Motor Vehicle Crash Rate (workforce vehicle incidents per million miles driven) 200.02 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.04
Number of process safety Tier 1 events  (ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 guidance)  
21 16 22 22 29 19
Upstream 9 14 16 18 15
Downstream & Chemicals 6 7 6 10 3
Midstream 1 1 0 1 1
footnotes are on Pages 40–41chevron.com/cr
40notes to pages 35 through 39
 1 This section reflects 2018 data collected as of April 12, 2019. All data are reported 
on an operated basis unless otherwise noted.
 2 Chevron reports petroleum spills to land and water to conform to the 2015 IPIECA 
Reporting Guidance. Spills to land and water that are greater than or equal  
to one barrel are included. Spills to secondary containment and chemical spills  
are excluded.
 3 The six (6) spills of significance that Chevron experienced in 2018 ranged in size 
from 0.01 to 0.3 thousand barrels. Of the one (1) thousand barrels spilled in total, 
0.6 were spilled to secondary containment.
  For purposes of conforming to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance, Chevron 
defines a spill of significance as a process safety Tier 1 loss-of-primary-containment  
(LOPC) event (as defined by American National Standards Institute/American 
Petroleum Institute [ANSI/API] Recommended Practice [RP] 754) with a con-
sequence of a release of material greater than the threshold quantities described  
in Table 1 of ANSI/API RP 754 in any one-hour period. Spills to secondary  
containment, regardless of actual environmental impact, are included, as are 
chemical spills. Releases to air are excluded.
 4 Fresh water withdrawn totals decreased in 2018 (relative to prior years) in part 
due to continued transition to the use of brackish water in lieu of fresh water at 
our operations in the Permian Basin and a refinement in water use estimates.
  Produced water is excluded from fresh water withdrawn, fresh water consumed 
and nonfresh water withdrawn. 
  Fresh water withdrawn from the environment is defined per local legal definitions. 
If no local definition exists, fresh water is defined as water extracted, directly or 
indirectly, from surface water, groundwater or rainwater that has a total dissolved 
solids concentration of less than or equal to 2,000 mg/L. Fresh water withdrawn 
does not include effluent or recycled/reclaimed water from municipal or other 
industrial wastewater treatment systems, as this water is reported under nonfresh 
water withdrawn.
  Nonfresh water withdrawn could include: seawater; brackish groundwater or 
surface water; reclaimed wastewater from another municipal or industrial facility; 
desalinated water; or remediated groundwater used for industrial purposes.
 5 Oil concentration is determined by the sampling of effluent streams, using 
methods required or recommended by regulatory agencies or authorities, where 
applicable. Chevron reports the total cumulative amount of oil discharged to  
surface water excluding spills, which are reported separately.
 6 
 
 
 
 7 Direct GHG emissions related to production  of energy in the form of electricity or 
steam exported or sold to a third party have been included in the reported Scope 1 
emissions to conform to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance. 8 2018 direct GHG emissions, on both an equity and operated basis, increased  
primarily due to increased production at our Wheatstone operations. 
  Refinements were made in the data reporting for 2017 equity and operated  
GHG emissions.
  All six Kyoto GHGs—carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), 
sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons—are included  
in Chevron’s Scope 1 emissions. CO 2, CH 4 and N 2O are accounted for in Chevron’s 
Scope 2 emissions and in Chevron’s Scope 3 emissions related to the electricity 
and steam that Chevron exports to third parties.
  The following entities are not currently included in the 2018 Chevron corporate 
GHG inventory: Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, 
and other nonoperated assets in which Chevron has an equity interest of  
16 percent or less. Emissions from the Wheatstone asset have been included  
in the inventory where Chevron has operational control, as defined by Australia’s 
National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 . 
  Information regarding GHG emissions from Chevron Phillips Chemical Company 
LLC can be found at cpchem.com .
  Additional GHG emissions data can be found at chevron.com/ghgmanagement .
 9 Chevron calculated emissions from third-party use of our products by multiplying 
total 2018 Upstream liquids and gas production by emissions factors from API’s 
Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural 
Gas Industry  (2004, 2009).
 10 The 2018 enterprisewide flare gas volume rate decreased due to improvements 
made in equipment reliability in our Australasia business unit.
  The 2017 average flare gas volume rate has been restated.
  In 2018, 17 percent of Chevron’s total direct (Scope 1), operated GHG emissions  
were from process emissions and vented sources, as defined by API’s Compen­
dium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas 
Industry  (2004, 2009).
 11 Total energy consumption increased due to increased production in our 
Australasia and Midcontinent business units but were offset by the divestment  
of less efficient assets.
  The 2017 energy data have been restated to correct an error and account  
for additional information that was received after the publication of the  
2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Highlights .
  Refining energy performance is measured by the Manufacturing Energy Index 
(MEI), which is calculated using the Solomon Energy Intensity Index methodology. 
MEI includes operated assets and nonoperated joint-venture refineries.
  Energy performance for Oronite, Lubricants, Americas Products and International 
Products is measured by the Non-Manufacturing Energy Index, which is the energy 
required to produce Chevron products compared to the energy that would have 
been required to produce the same products in 1992 (the index’s base year).
 12 VOC, SO x and NO x emissions decreased in 2018 due to reductions in venting  
and flaring, asset divestments, revision of in-scope sources and refinements made 
in data collection and calculations.
  Refinements were made in the data reporting for 2017 NO x, SO x and VOC  
emissions, including the exclusion of third-party time chartered vessels.
  For compiling and reporting air emissions data, Chevron follows regulatory defini -
tions of VOC. SO x emissions include SO 2 and SO 3, reported as SO 2-equivalent. NO x 
emissions include NO and NO 2 (reported as NO 2-equivalent) and exclude N 2O.
  Additional air emissions data can be found at chevron.com/air .The World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard  defines three “scopes” that Chevron uses to report GHG emissions. 
Scope 1 includes direct emissions from sources within a facility. Scope 2 includes 
indirect emissions from electricity and steam that Chevron facilities import.  
Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions. Chevron reports information  
related to Scope 3 emissions from third-party use of our products, which  
account for over 90 percent of our total Scope 3 emissions.chevron.com/cr
41 13 To conform to the 2015 IPIECA Reporting Guidance, and where appropriate  
information and data exist, our hazardous waste numbers starting in 2015  
exclude remediation waste generated, disposed of and recycled.
  Hazardous waste amounts are quantified using methods required or recom -
mended by regulatory agencies or authorities, where applicable. In other 
instances, similar methods are used, including direct measurement onsite or  
at the point of shipping, engineering estimates, and process knowledge.  
Chevron follows the regulatory definitions of hazardous waste applicable to  
the jurisdictions in which we operate, including de minimis  specifications  
(below which hazardous waste quantities do not need to be reported).
 14 Data are based on information that was received from the regulatory agency  
and recorded internally prior to the publication of this report.
15  Global employee diversity data and data from the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission have been rounded to the nearest integer for 2018  
and previous years, and ethnicity/gender combined has been rounded to  
one decimal place.
  The Other category in the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission  
statistics includes Two or More Races, Native American, and Pacific Islander.
  U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission statistics minority grouping includes ethnic diversity, both men and women.
16  This section reflects data collected as of February 20, 2019.
17  Data exclude spend that is ultimately shared with our partners.
 18 This section reflects Chevron data collected as of February 12, 2019.
 19 Health and safety performance rates include both injury- and illness-related  
incidents. API’s Benchmarking Survey of Occupational Injuries, Illnesses  
and Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry  data are used as industry benchmarks.
 20 Data include catastrophic and major incidents only.
 21 Process safety Tier 1 (LOPC) events are unplanned or uncontrolled releases resulting in consequences equivalent to those specified by ANSI/API RP 754 and International  Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Report 456: Process Safety 
Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators .CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 
This report contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron’s operations that 
are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. Words or phrases such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “forecasts,” “projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “schedules,” “estimates,” “positions,” “pursues,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “budgets,” “outlook,” “trends,” “guidance,” “focus,” “on schedule,” “on track,” “is slated,” “goals,” “objectives,” “strategies,” “opportunities,” “poised” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control and are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from 
those in the forward-looking statements are, among others, changing crude oil and natural gas prices; changing refining, marketing and chemicals margins; the company’s ability to realize anticipated cost savings and expenditure reductions; actions of competitors or regulators; timing of exploration expenses; timing of crude oil liftings; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; the results of operations and financial condition of the company’s suppliers, vendors, partners and equity affiliates, particularly during extended periods of low prices for crude oil and natural gas; the inability or failure of the company’s joint-venture partners to fund their share of operations and development activities; the potential failure to achieve expected net production from existing and future crude oil and natural gas development projects; potential delays in the development, construction or start-up of planned projects; the potential disruption or interruption of the company’s operations due to war, accidents, political events, civil unrest, severe weather, cyber threats and terrorist acts, crude oil production quotas or other actions that might  
be imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or other natural or  
human causes beyond the company’s control; changing economic, regulatory and political environments in the various countries in which the company operates; general domestic and international economic and political conditions; the potential liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; significant operational, investment or product changes required by existing or future environmental statutes and regulations, including international agreements and national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions; the potential liability resulting from other pending or future litigation; the company’s future acquisition or disposition of assets or shares or the delay or failure of such transactions to close based on required closing conditions; the potential for gains and losses from asset dispositions or impairments; government-mandated sales, divestitures, recapitalizations, industry-specific taxes, tariffs, sanctions, changes in fiscal terms or restrictions on scope of company operations; foreign currency movements compared with the U.S. dollar; material reductions in corporate liquidity and access to debt markets; the effects of changed accounting rules under generally accepted accounting principles promulgated by rule-setting bodies; the company’s ability to identify and mitigate the risks and hazards inherent in operating in the global energy industry; and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” on pages 18 through 21 of the company’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.forward-looking statements warningchevron.com/cr
42•  Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understanding of Chevron’s 
reporting requirements, including key persons responsible for drafting the CRR.
•  Reviewing Chevron’s documented reporting requirements to validate consistency of scope, definition and reporting requirements for each of the  HES performance indicators.
•  Reviewing Chevron’s primary data collection tools to assess use in the  reporting processes.
•  Evaluating consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). 
Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:
•  Processes were in place to ensure that personnel contributing to HES metrics 
understood corporate reporting procedures and requirements.
•  Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly defined and communicated.
•  Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood and carried out. Data collected at the site/local and business-unit levels were checked and aggregated into corporationwide metrics.
•  Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken.
LRQA’s Standards, Competence and IndependenceLRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management  to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.
LRQA is one of Chevron’s certification bodies for ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949 
and greenhouse gas emissions verification. The certification assessments and verification are the only work undertaken by LRQA for Chevron and as such  
do not compromise our independence or impartiality. 
Andrea M. Bockrath
LRQA Lead VerifierOn behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc.March 25, 2019
LRQA Reference: UQA4000679
LRQA Independent Assurance Statement
Relating to Chevron Corporation’s Corporate Responsibility Report  for the Calendar Year 2018
  Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, 
employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not  
be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or advice, and in that case any responsibility or  
liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety.Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2019. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A. Inc. in accordance 
with our contract, but is intended for the readers of this Report.
Terms of Engagement
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) was commissioned by Chevron U.S.A. Inc. on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron) to provide independent assurance on its processes used in the creation of the Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) for calendar year 2018 to a reasonable level using LRQA’s verification approach.
Our assurance engagement covered Chevron’s operations and activities 
worldwide and specifically covered the following requirements:
•  Reviewing the effectiveness of the processes for reporting health, 
environmental and safety (HES) IPIECA performance indicators.
•  Confirming consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance 
on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015) industry guidelines. 
Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data and information reported in the CRR.
LRQA’s responsibility is only to Chevron. LRQA disclaims any liability or respon-
sibility to others as explained in the end footnote. Chevron’s management was responsible for preparing the CRR and for maintaining effective internal controls over the reporting processes and CRR. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the reporting processes in accordance with our contract with Chevron. Ultimately, the CRR has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, Chevron.
LRQA’s Opinion
Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that Chevron’s reporting processes  were effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for assessing corporate performance and reporting information consistent with common reporting elements in the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). 
The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance 
and at the materiality of the professional judgment of the Verifier. 
LRQA’s Approach
LRQA’s assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with our Verification procedure; the following tasks were undertaken as part of the evidence-gathering process for this assurance engagement:
•  Visiting Chevron in San Ramon, California, to review data collection and 
checking processes. Reviewing Chevron Upstream, Chevron Midstream and Chevron Downstream & Chemicals to assess business-unit understanding  and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.
•  Visiting Oak Point Oronite Plant in Oak Point, Louisiana; lubricants facilities in Louisville, Kentucky, and Port Arthur, Texas; Chevron Upstream Europe in Aberdeen, Scotland; and an Environmental Management Company project site in Questa, New Mexico, to assess local understanding and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements.chevron.com/cr
43This report covers our owned and operated businesses and  
does not address the performance or operations of our suppliers, 
contractors and partners unless otherwise noted. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
This report contains forward-looking statements relating to 
Chevron’s operations that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. These statements are not guarantees of future conduct or policy and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control, including government regulation and oil and gas prices. See Forward-Looking Statements Warning on Page 41 .
Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the development, implementation or continuation of any program, policy or initiative discussed or forecasted in this report, may  
differ materially in the future. As with any projections or estimates, actual results or numbers may vary. Many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees. The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the  
date of this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any statements in this report.
As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as  
“the company,” “the corporation,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” 
may refer to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole. All of these terms are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise description of any of the separate companies, each of which manages its own affairs.about this report
Produced by Corporate Affairs, Chevron Corporation
Design Sequel, New York, New YorkCopy editor Joan D. Saunders Photo credits Cover, 1, 2, 10, 16, 17, 22, 28 and 30: Marc Marriott;  
13: Adam Neville; 18: Andrew Esiebo; 20: Benny Manser; 21 (left): Michael Edmondson, (center): Alfred Cox Aban; 32: Robert Sealeadditional environmental, social  
and governance reporting can be found  
at chevron.com/ESGreporting
Chevron Corporation
Corporate Affairs
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road
Building G
San Ramon, CA 94583-2324
USAFor additional information about Corporate Responsibility  
at Chevron, visit chevron.com/CR. 
To create customized charts and tables using our performance data,  
visit chevron.com/ESGchartgenerator.
For additional investor resources about our ESG reporting,  
visit chevron.com/ESGreporting.
Chevron Corporation
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA
www.chevron.com
© 2019 Chevron Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 913-0386P (5-19) (2.5M)Aligned with our Chevron Way value to protect people and the environment, we have printed this report on Forest Stewardship Council-certified  
Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.
100 percent of the electricity used to manufacture Mohawk Options is matched with Green-e certified wind energy.  
Mohawk Options is certified by the Rainforest Alliance for FS standards. RA-COC-000668.
Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar panels are expected to offset the company’s energy demands by 30 percent.If you are interested in learning more  
or continuing the conversation, we welcome  
you to engage with us on social media. 
facebook.com/chevron
 youtube.com/chevron linkedin.com/company/chevron @chevroncr
 @chevroncrlearn more