20
21
Sustainability  
ReportContents
Our Approach to Sustainability 14
Resilient Operations 26
Sustainable Product Innovation 35
Appendix 67People and Communities 48Message from the CEO 1
Message from the CSO 2
About Insulet 3
2021 Performance 7
Responding to COVID-19 11
1 Contents Message from the CEOMessage from the CEO
As I reflect on the past year, I believe it is more important than ever to integrate sustainability into our business while pursuing our 
mission to simplify and improve the lives of people with diabetes worldwide. Building upon our sustainability strategy, we are now 
driving measurable impact on critical environmental, social, and governance issues. I am proud of the remarkable progress we have 
made in a short amount of time, and I know that our accomplishments will motivate our continued growth. 
We continue to adapt to the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite disruptions in global supply chains, the 
determination of our employees and the resilience of our supply chain ensured that our customers did not miss a single shipment of 
our life-sustaining products. We also further strengthened the reliability of our supply chain through dual and local sourcing to enhance 
our ability to regularly deliver our products to customers.
We reaffirmed our commitment to providing comprehensive, flexible working arrangements that support our employees and maximize 
our talent pool. Additionally, aligned with our commitment to embed diversity, equity, and inclusion throughout all levels of Insulet, we 
reached 60% gender and ethnic diversity on our Board of Directors. Over 500 employees participated in our seven Employee Resource 
Groups, a two-fold increase in participation from our inaugural year in 2020. We remain dedicated to continually building an inclusive, 
nurturing culture that fosters employee wellbeing.  
We recognize that our products and operations impact our planet, and we are taking thoughtful steps to reduce our environmental 
footprint. To divert more products from landfills, we are seeking to expand our takeback programs and increase product recyclability. 
We are also actively working to improve efficiency in our facilities, conserve our use of natural resources, and prepare ourselves for 
the transition to a low-carbon economy. In 2021, we generated approximately 800,000 kilowatt-hours from our solar panels at our 
headquarters in Acton, Massachusetts, which is helping the Commonwealth meet its renewable energy goals.
I continue to be inspired by the strength of our employees and their dedication to innovation, which allows our Company to deliver 
revolutionary products to our customers. While in the midst of a pandemic, we achieved our sixth consecutive year of 20% average 
annual revenue growth, and we launched Omnipod® products in two new markets. In January 2022, the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration cleared the Omnipod® 5 Automated Insulin Delivery System , recognizing the effectiveness of Insulet’s innovative 
technology in simplifying diabetes management and improving clinical outcomes. By building on the advances of our high-quality 
Omnipod System, we continue to grow as a trusted leader serving those with diabetes.
Looking ahead, I am eager to deliver on our mission in bigger and better ways as we fulfill our commitments to our employees, 
customers, and the global diabetes community. Thank you for your dedicated support throughout this journey. 
Sincerely, 
Shacey Petrovic 
President and Chief Executive Officer
2 Message from the CSOMessage from the CSO
At Insulet, employees from diverse backgrounds come together to create innovative solutions and implement them passionately and 
responsibly. I am very proud to work with our talented colleagues around the world who are dedicated and selfless corporate citizens. 
Our teams are committed to our customers, our communities, the planet, and each other. We care about how our products are made, 
the wellbeing of the people who make them, and the impact we have on the global diabetes community.  
Contents Throughout the first year of our sustainability roadmap, we took 
concrete steps to carry out purpose-driven projects designed to  
build resilient operations, drive sustainable product innovation,  
and increase our social and environmental impact.
Throughout the first year of our sustainability roadmap, we took concrete steps to carry out purpose-driven projects designed  
to build resilient operations, drive sustainable product innovation, and increase our social and environmental impact. We made  
tremendous progress by increasing employee and external stakeholder engagement and improving our data management processes, 
which will allow us to better assess our performance and establish long-term improvement goals. We are building our resilience by 
understanding and managing our climate-related risks and opportunities, as well as aligning our strategy, actions, and reporting  
with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.  
We also made significant advancements on our circular economy strategy by integrating sustainability into decision-making around  
our products, packaging, and operations that considers the entire product lifecycle. In 2021, in line with our commitment to reduce  
our environmental impact, we accepted over five million Pods for takeback, diverting over 130 metric tons of waste from landfill. 
As I reflect on our journey, we have much to be proud of, and there is more ahead to challenge and excite us. Our unyielding energy  
will drive us forward as we generate meaningful, positive impacts for our planet, and enable our customers to enjoy simplicity, 
freedom, and healthier lives. We remain inspired by our sustainability vision to “Deliver growth with purpose: Innovating to improve 
lives and preserve our planet,” and we look forward to leading systemic change on key environmental, social, and economic issues.  
As such, I am pleased to present Insulet’s 2021 Sustainability Report, which details our work to execute our sustainability vision.  
Sincerely,
Lisa Brady 
Vice President, Global Sustainability and Chief Sustainability OfficerAbout Insulet 3About Insulet
Insulet Corporation (NASDAQ: PODD) (Insulet or the Company), headquartered in 
Massachusetts, is an innovative medical device company dedicated to simplifying 
life for people with diabetes through the Omnipod® Insulin Management System 
(Omnipod). Omnipod provides a unique alternative to traditional insulin delivery 
methods. With its simple, wearable design, the disposable Pod provides up to three 
days of non-stop insulin delivery, without the need to see or handle a needle. We also 
leverage the unique design of our Pod by tailoring the Omnipod technology platform  
for the delivery of non-insulin subcutaneous drugs across other therapeutic areas. 
Omnipod is a continuous insulin delivery system that provides all the benefits of insulin 
pump therapy in a unique way. Omnipod eliminates the need for multiple daily injection 
(MDI) therapy or the use of pump and tubing. The waterproof[1] Pod provides automated, 
virtually pain-free insertion, can be worn in multiple locations directly on the body, and 
delivers precise, personalized doses of insulin. The Personal Diabetes Manager (PDM) 
or Controller is a wireless, handheld device that programs the Pod with the user’s 
personalized insulin-delivery instructions and wirelessly monitors the Pod’s operation.
[1] The Pod has an IP28 rating for up to 25 feet for 60 minutes. The PDM and Controller are  
 not waterproof. 
Our Mission 
Our Guiding PrinciplesOur mission is to improve the lives  
of people with diabetes and enable  
our customers to enjoy simplicity, 
freedom, and healthier lives through 
innovative technology.
We strive to be an outstanding Company by exceeding customer  
expectations, with amazing people, guided by shared values. 
Customer Focus
Unrelenting commitment to quality, value, and service 
Winning Culture
Inspired, empowered, and inclusive culture where our people  
love what they do and have fun achieving the remarkable
Shared Values
Foundational principles that guide our actions and decisions 
Respect:  We treat everyone with dignity 
Integrity:  We do what we say we will do 
Teamwork:  We collaborate for the greater good 
Excellence:  We hold ourselves to the highest standards
Contents About Insulet 4Launched in the U.S. in 2018 and in our international markets in 2019, the Omnipod 
DASH® Insulin Management System (Omnipod DASH) is built upon the success 
of earlier generations of our Omnipod portfolio. Omnipod DASH features a secure 
Bluetooth®-enabled Pod and a modernized touchscreen PDM. In the U.S., users can 
quickly and easily access their PDM data on their smartphone through two mobile 
applications offered in the U.S. (Omnipod DISPLAY® and Omnipod VIEW™). Through 
innovative features on these mobile applications, users can see their Continuous 
Glucose Monitoring (CGM) data and insulin delivery information together on their 
compatible personal mobile device. Omnipod DASH also features an option to 
share therapy status information with up to 12 other people. Omnipod DASH 
received both the Diabetes Technology Society (DTSec) Cybersecurity Standard for 
Connected Diabetes Device Security certification and International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) 27001 certification for information security and safety.Omnipod DASH 
A smart, easy-to-use, wearable device to deliver insulin and manage diabetes 
The Omnipod DASH System simplifies insulin management for people with  
type 1 diabetes or insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes. It combines a tubeless, 
wearable, waterproof[2] Pod that provides up to 72 hours of non-stop insulin  
with an easy-to-use touchscreen, Bluetooth®-enabled PDM that looks like  
a normal smartphone. 
[2] The Pod has an IP28 rating for up to 25 feet for 60 minutes. The PDM and Controller are not waterproof. 
Contents 
In January 2022, we received clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) for the commercial distribution of the Omnipod® 5 Automated Insulin Delivery 
(AID) System (Omnipod 5) for people with type 1 diabetes aged six years and older. 
In February 2022, we commenced a limited market release of Omnipod 5 in the U.S. 
Omnipod 5 includes an AID algorithm that is located on the Pod, which integrates with 
a third-party CGM to obtain glucose values. The embedded algorithm then predicts 
glucose levels into the future and automatically adjusts insulin dosing.
In 2021, we also completed an Omnipod 5 clinical study of pediatric users ages two to 
six years old. In 2022, we filed for an expanded indication from the FDA, which would 
signify that our treatment is effective for populations other than those for which it was 
originally intended. We have also filed for CE Mark approval of Omnipod 5, which would 
indicate that our product complies with applicable regulations and can be sold in the 
European Union. In 2021, we completed a feasibility study with Omnipod 5 in people 
with insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes and we plan to conduct additional studies with 
the goal of expanding Omnipod 5’s indications.5The sophisticated, tubeless, wearable Pod is enhanced with SmartAdjust™ technology 
to continuously adjust insulin using a customizable glucose target and can be fully 
controlled by a compatible smartphone, with no multiple daily injections or tubes 
and zero fingersticks. Designed to complement the daily routines of users, Omnipod 
provides unique benefits compared to other currently available types of insulin therapy, 
such as MDI and traditional and automated insulin delivery pumps. Research shows 
that Omnipod is associated with good glycemic control, fewer hypoglycemic events, 
reduced glycemic variability, and improved quality of life compared to MDI therapy.[3] 
Furthermore, our innovative pay-as-you-go model, available through the pharmacy 
channel in the U.S., offers customers a monthly, commitment-free cost structure to 
simplify payments and provide pump therapy at low or no up-front cost. For more 
information on Omnipod, see our website . 
Our innovative business model reflects our ongoing commitment to reduce the 
complexity of diabetes management and increase accessibility to sophisticated 
technology. Insulet continues to experience an exciting period of growth as we  
advance our product designs, effectively manage our resources, and improve 
operational efficiency.Omnipod 5® Automated Insulin Delivery System  
Our newest innovation, Omnipod 5, is the first and only tubeless AID system  
in the U.S. that integrates with the Dexcom G6® CGM and automatically adjusts 
insulin delivery to manage blood glucose with no multiple daily injections and zero 
fingersticks. In automated mode, Omnipod 5 helps to protect against highs and 
lows during the day and night to simplify life for people living with diabetes, and  
it is the first AID system in the U.S. fully controlled by a compatible  
personal smartphone.
[3] For more information on the results of our Omnipod 5 research, please visit our published reports in Diabetes Care , Diabetes Research and Clinical Practice , and Diabetes Technology and Therapeutics .
About Insulet Contents 
6Memberships of Industry Associations
We maintain best-in-class standards of conduct and advocate for increased access to 
innovative medical technology through our memberships in the following associations:
• The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed)
• Medical Device Innovation Consortium (MDIC), which includes  
our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on its Board of Directors
• MedTech Europe
• MedTech Canada
• Massachusetts Medical Device Industry Council (MassMEDIC),  
which includes our Chief Operating Officer (COO) on its Board of Directors
• Association of British HealthTech Industries (ABHI)
• JDRF 
About Insulet Contents [4] We have contract manufacturing sites in China.Insulet-Owned Manufacturing[4]Office
Distribution Center
Countries Where Omnipod Was Sold in 2021Acton, MA (Headquarters)
Billerica, MA
Salt Lake City, UT
San Diego, CA
TijuanaNashville, TNMississauga,
OntarioLondon
Paris
DubaiMunichUtrecht
Kunshan,
Jiangsu
Shenzhen,
Guangdong
Locations
Insulet is headquartered in Acton, Massachusetts, and we sold Omnipod in the 
following countries in 2021:
• Australia 
• Austria 
• Belgium 
• Canada 
• Croatia 
• Denmark • Finland 
• France 
• Germany 
• Greece 
• Iceland 
• Israel • Italy 
• Kuwait 
• Netherlands 
• Norway 
• Qatar 
• Sweden • Switzerland 
• Turkey 
• United Kingdom 
• United States
We continue to experience steady growth and are planning to expand to new 
markets around the world in 2022.2021 Performance 72021 Performance
Driving growth across our business for all stakeholders 
Key Accomplishments
Contents Achieved
record-setting
U.S. and total Omnipod new customer starts 
Published 
Omnipod 5 pivotal data results
that demonstrated safety and effectiveness  
Published 
Omnipod 5 pivotal study extension data 
that showed significant improvements in glycemic control with one year of use
Completed
Omnipod 5 feasibility study 
for individuals with type 2 diabetes; invited to present study data at the  
2022 Advanced Technologies & Treatments for Diabetes conferenceReceived
U.S. FDA clearance 
for use of Lyumjev® with Omnipod and Omnipod DASH systemsStrategic
$1 billion+ USD
in total Company annual revenue, exceeding five-year target,  
and delivered sixth consecutive year of over 20% revenue growth
~300,000
customers served globally using Omnipod  
2021 Performance 8 Contents 
Established new
Supplier Code of Conduct   135+ metric tons
of Pods diverted from landfill through product takeback programs
Almost 800,000 kilowatt hours
of renewable energy through our on-site solar panelsResilient Operations400+
new employees on-boarded
6,000+ hours
of employee training during Quality and Compliance Week  
7 Employee Resource Groups
with over 500 participating employees, which represent  
over 14% of our full-time employee population  
2,400+ hours
of mentoring through a mentoring pilot program for Employee Resource Groups  
60%
gender and ethnic diversity on our Board of Directors People and Communities
Completed full international commercial
launch of Omnipod DASH in Canada
Increased availability and accessibility by
entering markets in Turkey and Australia 
Opened
new regional office in Dubai
to headquarter Middle East operations  Markets9 2021 Performance Contents Awards and Ratings
Company
Upgraded our MSCI environmental, social, and governance (ESG) rating,  
which measures a company’s resilience to material ESG risks, to
AA, the second highest 
on the rating scale and the highest score for a Healthcare Equipment  
company in the U.S.ResponsibilityNamed to 2021
MedTech’s Big 100 
The world’s largest medical technology industry companies
Named to Drucker Institute’s
Best Managed Companies 
of 2021Ranked #16
on Top 100 Women-Led Businesses in Massachusetts 2021
Ranked #13
on Boston Business Journal 2021 Middle Market ListDiabetes Care
Won
Gold 
at the PM360 Trailblazer Awards, which recognized our healthcare personnel  
and patient multichannel educational marketing program
Received Association of Diabetes Care and Education Specialists 
Bronze Award Awarded
Top 10 Wearable Medical Devices Solution 
2021 by MD Tech Review 10 2021 Performance Contents 
Ranked as one of 
UK’s Best Workplaces  
2021 (medium-sized company) by Great Place to Work 
Ranked as one of 
UK’s Best Workplaces for Women  
2021 (medium-sized company) by Great Place to Work
Recognized as a 
Top Workplace 
for our Salt Lake City office by The Salt Lake Tribune 
Recognized as a 
Top Workplace 
for our San Diego office by The San Diego Union Tribune
Awarded 
Top Workplace Cultural Excellence Award
for Remote Work by Top Workplaces
Recognized for
Best Equity Effectiveness Plan
by the Global Equity OrganizationWorkplace
Granted 
Above and Beyond Award   
by Employer Support of the Guard and ReserveInclusionResponding to COVID-19 11Responding to COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected our operations, presented health and safety 
risks, and influenced ways of working across the world. Our response to the pandemic 
is driven by three fundamental principles: 
1. Preserve the wellbeing of the communities in which we live and work.
2. Protect the health and safety of all our global employees.
3. Ensure that our customers have continued access to life-sustaining  
medical therapy.
While adapting to these unprecedented challenges, we continue to reinforce our 
dedication to serving our customers, demonstrating innovation, and maintaining  
safety protocols and supportive policies to foster employee wellness. Our mission to 
improve the lives of people living with diabetes remains our driving motivation, and  
we have developed a sustainable approach to deliver on our commitment despite the  
changing circumstances. Supporting Our Customers  
and Communities
Our customers rely on our products to manage their diabetes, which only became 
more essential during the COVID-19 pandemic. The virus intensified health risks for 
our customers, disrupted their normal routines, and increased the critical need for 
dependable products and safe distribution. We prioritized flexibility for our customers 
while expanding access to our products and preventing interruptions to service. 
Throughout 2021, we maintained a continuous supply of Pods for our customers 
without compromising employee safety, health, or wellbeing. We also leveraged 
technology to offer virtual training to teach new users about our products. To learn 
more about our ongoing programs to improve convenience and provide support, see  
the sections on Customer Centricity  and Affordability and Accessibility . 
We also strengthened our external engagements and partnerships to assist our 
communities as we faced COVID-19 variants and the associated impacts. Throughout 
the pandemic, we have continued to invest in our local communities, make charitable 
contributions, and partner with organizations that align with our values. Our donations 
supported educational programs and addressed food insecurities in our communities. 
For additional information about our efforts, see the sections on Policy and Advocacy  
and Community Engagement .Throughout 2021, we maintained  
a continuous supply of Pods for our  
customers without compromising  
employee safety, health, or wellbeing.
Contents 12Caring for Our Employees
From the beginning of the pandemic, we have implemented policies that promote 
wellness and have regularly updated our practices to align with the needs of our 
employees. We continue to focus our strategic efforts around the following priorities:
• Physical safety and risk mitigation:  We monitor status through contact tracing, 
educate employees about mask use and sanitation, promote social distancing, offer 
disinfecting wipes and face masks for employees, and frequently clean our facilities. 
We also have on-site nurses who perform rigorous in-person health screenings. To 
effectively provide high-quality customer experiences while maintaining safety, we 
equip our field employees with cameras and monitors for virtual training sessions 
with customers. We also provide educational resources that train our teams to 
promote safe, positive customer interactions. 
• Mental wellbeing and work-life balance:  To support family care, we provide our 
employees worldwide access to programs to manage personal services, childcare, 
tutoring needs, and caregiving for seniors, adults, and pets. We also offer online 
resources for employees that aim to improve stress management, mental and 
physical fitness, and financial health.
• Communication and feedback opportunities:  In 2021, we held nine Town Halls 
for our employees, and we will continue to host these meetings in 2022. We 
also host monthly virtual meetings to connect our executive team to our global 
workforce with our “Stay Connected” initiative and organize virtual social events 
to promote internal networking. In addition, we monitor employee satisfaction 
through wellness pulse surveys, which we conduct three to four times per year, 
and incorporate feedback to improve engagement. For more information, see the 
section on Talent Management and Retention .
• Learning and development:  As we continue to embrace virtual work, we provide 
virtual training opportunities so our employees can effectively lead remote 
teams and increase collaboration through online tools. We have adopted virtual 
on-boarding to enable consistent training across our global workforce. Our 
performance reviews and employee check-ins also foster growth and acknowledge 
the impacts of COVID-19. 
• Work flexibility and adaptation:  Our Global Flexible Working Arrangement Policy 
enables adjustments to working hours and equipment for remote work to support 
productivity. In 2021, we implemented our Future of Work principles to integrate 
our learnings from virtual work and inform our strategy going forward. For more 
information, see the section on Talent Management and Retention . • Immediate care:  In accordance with our emergency sick leave policy, we provide 
10 additional paid days for employees who become sick with COVID-19 or care for 
a family member affected by COVID-19. In the U.S., we offer free in-home testing 
for full-time, part-time, and temporary employees and contractors.
• Ongoing care:  To protect our workforce, we have COVID-19 procedures in place 
that are informed by the latest guidance from healthcare and government officials 
as well as local and regional regulations. Across our global locations, we encourage 
employees to receive the vaccine to lower their risk of getting and spreading the 
virus and to prevent serious illness and death. We also offer educational programs 
to provide employees with information on safety measures and protocols and 
to help employees navigate returning to the office. At our Acton, Massachusetts 
location, we provided on-site clinics to provide vaccinations for our employees,  
their families, and Acton town residents. 
Responding to COVID-19 Contents 13Maintaining Resilience
We continually evolve to preserve business continuity, meet the needs of our 
customers, and safeguard our workforce. As we enhance our approach to 
COVID-19, our internal Coronavirus Task Force leads our efforts in alignment with 
recommendations from the World Health Organization (WHO), the U.S. Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and other relevant federal, state, and local 
agencies. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we embraced new opportunities 
to think creatively and collaborate across the business. Because of our agility and 
innovation, our teams continue to meet demand and deliver high-quality products to 
support the health of our customers without interruption. In addition, we are currently 
in the early stages of implementing a business continuity program to address business 
disruptions, wherever they may occur. We have created the program framework and 
engaged with our leaders to identify critical functions to focus on, such as supply chain 
management and information technology services. Moving forward, we will continue  
to mature the program and develop policies, processes, and protocols to create  
a more resilient business. 
Although the COVID-19 pandemic has influenced our operational approach, we have 
experienced steady growth and continued to expand our business in 2021 to Turkey 
and Australia. While maintaining productivity in virtual environments and protecting 
the wellbeing of our employees, we have also accomplished important steps in our 
sustainability journey to preserve our natural resources and further reduce waste 
generation. We remain resilient as we face the long-term effects of the pandemic,  
and we strive to generate positive impacts that reflect our culture of integrity and  
our dedication to exceptional performance. We continually evolve to preserve business 
continuity, meet the needs of our customers, 
and safeguard our workforce.
Responding to COVID-19 Contents Our 
Approach to  
Sustainability
Materiality 1 5
Governance and Ethics  20Stakeholder Engagement 17
Sustainability Strategy 18
14 Contents Our Approach to Sustainability 15Materiality 
Understanding our key 
sustainability impacts  
and opportunities
We focus our sustainability strategy on key ESG topics that are most important to our 
business and account for impacts on our operations, supply chain, stakeholders, and 
planet. In 2020, we conducted our first materiality assessment, a research-based 
process to determine our most significant material ESG topics based on internal and 
external stakeholder input. 
We identified 23 key ESG topics through our materiality assessment, which was 
informed by interviews and surveys with key stakeholders, including employees, 
customers, suppliers, investors, payors, healthcare professionals, and advocacy groups. 
The results of our materiality assessment provided a foundation for our sustainability 
strategy and enabled us to concentrate our management efforts on strategic priority 
topics. We also develop our sustainability reports based on these key areas of interest. 
We continuously evaluate our performance and conduct materiality assessments at 
regular intervals to ensure our strategy is aligned with the Company’s growth, our 
dynamic industry, and the evolving expectations of stakeholders. 
For a more detailed description of our materiality assessment process, please visit  
our 2020 Sustainability Report . 
Contents  “As we grow and expand internationally, it is paramount  
that we continue to be a responsible company for our 
customers, our employees, our shareholders, and the 
communities where we live and operate.”
Chuck Alpuche, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer  16Materiality Matrix
Highest Priority Material ESG Topics Definitions
Product Quality and SafetyProtecting customer health and safety by enforcing rigorous quality assurance systems throughout the full lifecycle of products, 
including design, sourcing, manufacturing, and sales.
Data Privacy and CybersecurityDeploying privacy and security systems and controls, and investing in people, process, and technology controls to ensure  
that the privacy integrity, security, and accessibility of personal data are not compromised.
Affordability and AccessibilityAbility to make products and therapies accessible to customers, improving availability and affordability of products through 
partnerships, and investing in critical skills and infrastructure.
Governance and EthicsEstablishing clear governance processes, transparent reporting structures, a well-defined code of conduct, and monitoring systems  
to ensure personnel uphold the highest ethical standards in business operations and customer interaction.
Compliance and Anti-CorruptionEstablishing clear leadership and accountability for compliance in line with applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and 
regulations, as well as rigorous auditing and monitoring processes.
Product StewardshipDriving sustainable product design and packaging choices and focusing on recycling/re-use options. Reducing the environmental 
impact and waste of products and making products more efficient.
Customer CentricityAn unwavering commitment to improving the lives of people with diabetes, with the best interests of our customers top of mind  
in everything we do.Importance to BusinessImportance to StakeholdersWorkplace Health and SafetyCustomer CentricityKey Topic Areas
Inclusion and Diversity
Human Rights
R&D
Responsible Supply Chain Management
Energy Management
Marketing PracticesInnovation
Talent Management and Retention
Climate Change
Waste ManagementData Privacy and CybersecurityProduct Quality and Safety
Affordability and Accessibility
Governance and Ethics
Compliance and Anti-Corruption
Product StewardshipStakeholder Management
Intellectual Property
Policy and Advocacy
Water ManagementCommunity Engagement
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents 17Stakeholder Engagement
Responding to the needs  
of our stakeholdersThrough effective and regular engagement activities, we aim to better understand 
stakeholder interests, address their concerns, and meet their expectations. We value 
stakeholder feedback, as it helps us enhance our management processes, increase our 
positive impacts, and improve our overall performance. We engage with stakeholders who 
have a strategic connection to our operations and help contribute to the success of our 
business. Leveraging our materiality assessment results, we also focus our reporting to 
increase transparency around key ESG topics that are most important to our stakeholders. 
Stakeholder Group Key ESG Topics Methods of Engagement
EmployeesProduct Quality and Safety, Customer Centricity,  
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion,  
Talent Development, InnovationGlobal Town Hall meetings, ongoing surveys, intranet, virtual engagement 
events, employee sounding boards, trainings, monthly newsletter, virtual 
and in-person on-boarding
CustomersAffordability and Accessibility, Product Quality and Safety,  
Customer Centricity, Product Stewardship, InnovationSurveys, focus groups, virtual and in-person product trainings 
CommunitiesProduct Quality and Safety, Customer Centricity,  
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity, Human RightsConferences, volunteering, donations
SuppliersProduct Quality and Safety, Customer Centricity, Innovation,  
Workplace Health and Safety, Governance and Ethics, Human Rights,  
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Product Stewardship, Climate ChangeAudits, assessments, quarterly business reviews, supplier scorecards
InvestorsDiversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Talent Management and Retention, 
Workplace Health and Safety, Climate ChangeEarnings calls and related reporting, industry and investor  
conferences, shareholder meetings, press releases on material  
updates, annual SEC filings
Payors/Civil  
Servants/MinistersAffordability and Accessibility, Product Quality and Safety,  
Customer Centricity, Innovation, Climate Change,  
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity, Human RightsSurveys, contract negotiations, meetings, dossier submissions, 
reimbursement procedures and processes, horizon scanning  
exercises, industry association groups 
Healthcare ProfessionalsAffordability and Accessibility, Product Quality and Safety, Customer 
Centricity, Data Privacy and Cybersecurity, Governance and EthicsMarket research, product development, product trainings
Advocacy GroupsProduct Quality and Safety, Customer Centricity, Data Privacy  
and Cybersecurity, Human Rights, Affordability and AccessibilityMeetings, conferences
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents 18Sustainability Strategy
Guiding our responsible 
growth in alignment with  
our pillars 
We are dedicated to executing our sustainability strategy and vision to “Deliver 
growth with purpose: innovating to improve lives and preserve our planet.” Our Chief 
Sustainability Officer (CSO) and Global Sustainability function diligently lead our 
comprehensive sustainability strategy, align our approach with our global growth plan, 
and establish and achieve forward-looking goals. Our three strategic Sustainability 
pillars—Resilient Operations, Sustainable Product Innovation, and People and 
Communities—form the foundation of our integrated sustainability approach as  
we drive positive change for the global diabetes community. 
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents Resilient Operations
Growing responsibly across our business and 
supply chain as we scale our operations, and 
minimize our environmental footprint
Sustainable Product Innovation
Ensuring environmentally conscious and 
inclusive design is embedded in our products 
and packaging across the lifecycle
People and Communities
Improving lives of people in the global diabetes 
community, driving an inclusive culture, and  
inspiring social impactDeliver Growth With Purpose
Innovating to improve lives  
and preserve our planetOur Sustainability Vision19Resilient Operations
Our Resilient Operations pillar concentrates on sustainable operations and supplier responsibility 
to increase our positive impact and mitigate any negative impact on society and the planet. As we 
implement our sustainability strategy, we evaluate ways to reduce our emissions and our waste, 
conserve our natural resources, and embed sustainability throughout our supply chain. We are  
actively exploring opportunities to implement future goals and targets in this area.
Sustainable Product Innovation
Our Sustainable Product Innovation pillar reflects our dedication to environmentally conscious and 
inclusive design across our products’ lifecycles. We focus on product and packaging design and product 
takeback to minimize our consumption of natural resources, keep components in use for as long as 
possible, and contribute to a circular economy. We also maintain programs to protect product quality 
and promote innovative, customer-centric designs.
People and Communities
Our People and Communities pillar centers on fostering an inspired and inclusive culture where all 
employees feel welcomed, respected, and valued with professional growth opportunities. We continually 
work to increase the availability and affordability of our products with expanded coverage and our 
pricing model and support the health and wellbeing of people with diabetes around the world. We also 
support our people to be active in their local communities through charitable giving and volunteerism. 
Our Focus for the Future
In 2021, we expanded our existing sustainability programs and capabilities, collaborated with strategic 
partners, and pursued opportunities to advance our sustainability strategy. We continued to build on 
previous steps to measure our current state and baseline performance. As we move forward, we plan to 
further embed sustainability across our global operations and promote transparency in our disclosures. 
Based on the outcomes of our baselining initiatives, we plan to establish ambitious ESG targets in 2022 
and regularly assess our progress. We strive to contribute to a more sustainable future while delivering 
on our commitment to increase access to advanced diabetes management, provide high-quality 
products, and simplify the lives of people with diabetes.
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents 20Governance and Ethics
Maintaining the  
highest standards and 
upholding our values
Our Board of Directors
Our robust corporate governance inspires a culture of ethical behavior, drives  
long-term shareholder value, and guides our growth. The Insulet Board of Directors and 
its committees oversee our global strategy while adhering to responsibilities defined 
in our Corporate Governance Guidelines . We regularly review our practices to ensure 
effective oversight and governance. 
The Board is composed of 10 Directors, including our CEO. Our Board members have 
a diverse set of experiences, skills, and backgrounds to deliver effective responses to 
stakeholder needs. 
• They are seasoned leaders who hold or have held an array of diverse leadership 
positions in complex, highly regulated businesses.
• They have served as CEOs and in senior positions in the areas of operations, 
finance, and technology.
• They bring deep and diverse experience in academia, non-profit organizations,  
and public and private companies, both domestic and international.
The Board reviews its overall composition at least annually to promote a wide range  
of perspectives, monitor personal and professional integrity, and encourage diversity  
of gender, race, ethnicity, and age. Currently, women constitute 50% of the Board. 
The Board has three standing committees comprised solely of independent  
Directors—the Audit Committee, the Talent and Compensation Committee  
and the Nominating, Governance, and Risk Committee. For more information  
on each committee, please see the committee charters  on our website.
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents 21ESG Governance
Our Nominating, Governance, and Risk Committee reviews our ESG performance and 
reporting and maintains oversight of our risks at the highest level. Our Vice President, 
Global Sustainability and CSO reports to the COO, leads our sustainability strategy, and 
manages our ESG practices. The CSO reports to the Nominating, Governance, and Risk 
Committee on the Company’s ESG progress and initiatives at least twice per year. 
Incorporating input from our Board of Directors, our Global Sustainability function 
executes our strategy and tracks our performance. To integrate sustainability 
throughout our operations, we collaborate across the business to reduce our 
environmental impacts, design innovative, sustainable products, develop an inclusive 
culture, and support our communities and our customers around the world. 
Our Governance Best Practices  
• Independent Chairman of the Board 
• Eight of the Company’s 10 Directors are independent 
• Audit Committee, Talent and Compensation Committee, and Nominating, 
Governance, and Risk Committee each consist solely of independent Directors
• Board refreshment—added at least one new Board member  
each year since 2014
• A Director who does not receive a majority vote in an uncontested election 
must promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board, which will consider 
whether to accept the resignation 
• Regular executive sessions of independent Directors 
• Executive and Director stock ownership guidelines 
• No hedging or pledging of Insulet securities by executive officers  
or Directors permitted 
• Board adoption of proxy access Bylaw provisions
• No shareholder rights plan (i.e., no “poison pill”)Ethics, Compliance, and Anti-Corruption 
Our customers entrust us to deliver high-quality products with life-changing impacts, 
and we work to preserve this trust and reflect transparency in our business. When we 
operate with integrity, we protect the best interests of our stakeholders and maintain 
reliability in our business. As we grow and expand into new countries with new laws 
and regulations, we remain steadfast in our commitment to uphold the highest ethical 
standards at all levels of our organization. 
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  provides guidelines for all employees, 
officers, and Directors to perform their duties ethically and fairly. Insulet’s Board of 
Directors, its committees, and the Company’s Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer are 
responsible for administering and interpreting the Code. We expect everyone at Insulet 
to act in compliance with applicable laws and regulations when working with suppliers, 
partners, healthcare professionals, customers, and competitors. As we expand into new 
global markets, we continue to align with the ethical standards laid out in our Code. 
We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment against employees or job applicants 
based on veteran status, race, color, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, 
national origin or ancestry, physical or mental disability, genetic information, or other 
consideration protected by law. Our Code enforces these values and provides our 
standards of conduct for many other areas, including: 
• Anti-Corruption:  We require employees to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act, and other applicable anti-bribery,  
anti-kickback, and anti-corruption laws, rules, and regulations.
• Conflicts of Interest:  We require our directors, officers, and employees to avoid 
situations that present a potential or actual conflict between their personal 
interests and our Company’s interests.
• Confidentiality:  Our employees must only use proprietary information for Company 
duties and must prevent the unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information. 
• Political Contributions:  All political contributions proposed to be made with 
Company funds must be approved by the Company’s Chief Compliance and  
Privacy Officer.
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents 22We provide training to all employees on our ethics program upon joining Insulet, on an 
annual refresher basis, and when there are key updates to our policies and procedures. 
Our Compliance team works to enforce the Code, and we strive to have 100% of 
employees certify compliance with the Code annually. In 2021, 100% of employees 
in North America completed training and certification to the Code, and we have been 
implementing similar processes across our locations to track our global performance.
We promote accountability by encouraging all employees to report any ethical concerns 
or suspected violations to the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, the anonymous 
Compliance and Ethics Hotline that is available 24/7, or the anonymous Compliance 
and Ethics Web Portal. We do not allow any retaliation against an employee who 
reports suspected misconduct in good faith.
The Compliance and Internal Audit teams are responsible for routinely reviewing and 
monitoring our compliance and assessing our approach against government standards. 
In 2021, we advanced our program by establishing an Internal Audit function and 
initiating an internal audit of our FCPA practices. We continue to expand and improve 
our compliance capabilities to conduct more internal audits and implement real-time 
monitoring for relevant risks.
We also manage business conduct and ethics in our supply chain by providing a 
Supplier Code of Conduct  that outlines standards of behavior for our suppliers.  
For more information, see the section on Responsible Supply Chain Management . 
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
We are evolving our products to become more connected to wireless systems, which 
allows our customers to more easily and conveniently monitor and control their insulin 
delivery. Protecting our customers’ personal health information and defending our 
systems from external security threats is of the utmost importance. We integrate 
cybersecurity and data privacy into the product design process and into our operations. 
To address the increasing presence and sophistication of online security threats, we 
pursue continuous improvement to protect our customers and our business. 
Data Privacy 
In 2021, we expanded our Privacy Office to meet our growing needs as we conduct 
business in new countries, each with specific data privacy requirements. The team 
reports to the Chief Information Officer and enforces strong data privacy policies, standards, and procedures which are aligned to applicable global privacy laws, 
including the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The  
Privacy Office works in close collaboration with our Compliance and Privacy team.
When we expand into new countries, we assess local and national laws to understand 
the data privacy requirements, determine if there are any gaps in our procedures, 
and enhance our procedures as needed. We also perform routine privacy impact 
assessments to systematically analyze how personally identifiable information is 
collected, used, shared, and maintained within our systems and business processes. 
These privacy impact assessments allow us to manage privacy risks involved in all 
processing of personal health information. Additionally, in 2021 we implemented  
a new privacy management platform. 
We continue to advance and mature our data privacy procedures to maintain trust in 
our products and protect our systems against external risks. For more information on 
how we safeguard customers’ personal information, please see our Privacy Policy . 
Product Security 
Our customers depend on our technology to effectively manage their diabetes. As our 
products become more complex, we work to maintain the reliability of our systems. 
Our Global IT team implements our cybersecurity program and manages robust 
procedures for product security to promote consistency across our organization. To 
preserve customer trust in our devices, we manage cybersecurity throughout our entire 
product lifecycle, starting with product development and extending through to product 
use and end-of-life. We also employ advanced encryption methods to protect product 
connection to wireless systems and use static code analysis and dynamic testing to 
evaluate and overcome vulnerabilities.
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents 
23
As Insulet develops new products to help our customers better manage diabetes, 
we also strive to improve the security features of our devices. Our newest innovation, 
Omnipod 5, utilizes state-of-the-art authentication and encryption with mobile devices. 
Intended to be controlled through a secure mobile application on the user’s compatible 
smartphone, Omnipod 5 limits access to verified users, validates the reliability of the 
Omnipod 5 app, and ensures both the integrity and authentication of the smartphone 
device. Additionally, Omnipod 5 has introduced X.509 certificate-based mutual 
authentication that safeguards the dependability of the Controller and the Pod by 
signing and verifying all critical commands sent to the Pod. Omnipod 5 is now globally 
recognized for incorporating the highest standards for information management and 
cybersecurity. This includes secure data transfer between the Pod and the application, 
as well as secure cloud storage.We monitor the global network of security standards to maintain best-in-class security 
for our whole portfolio of products. We currently align with the following frameworks: 
• International Electrotechnical Commission’s (IEC) 27000 series (ISO/IEC 27000) 
with ISO 27001:2017 Information Security Certification for all global products  
and services 
• National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Framework  
for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity
• ISO 27001 and the U.K. Cyber Essentials certifications for the Omnipod 5 
Automated Insulin Delivery System
• ISO 27001 certification and the DTSec Cybersecurity Standard for  
Connected Diabetes Device Security certification for the Omnipod DASH  
Insulin Management System
• BS EN (British Standard and European Standard) ISO 27001:2017,  
which incorporates the requirements of BS ISO 27001:2013 to confirm  
information security
Enterprise Security 
We manage enterprise security through our Enterprise Risk Management program  
to identify and mitigate risks and prepare for potential threats. Insulet’s Board of 
Directors and executive team oversee our cybersecurity program and processes and 
review cybersecurity risks and incidents to improve our IT system controls and security. 
Our Cybersecurity team updates the executive team on a quarterly basis and briefs  
the Board at least annually on our cybersecurity program and risks. 
We leverage innovative software to safeguard and maintain the integrity of our own 
operations. In addition to integrating multiple layers of defense into our IT systems, 
we encrypt all Company laptops. Furthermore, a third party manages our security 
operations, with 24/7 oversight. In 2021, we conducted a cybersecurity scenario test 
to evaluate our ability to respond to an external cybersecurity attack. Our successful 
completion of the test allowed us to better understand our strengths and to identify and 
address areas of improvement; this initiative reflects our commitment to upholding the 
highest standards of cybersecurity. To keep up with the dynamic, ever-evolving digital 
environment, we continually update our programs and increase our capabilities to 
prevent data loss, maintain enterprise security, and protect against potential risks.
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents 24Employee Education and Training
Our employees are critical to the success of our data privacy and cybersecurity program, 
and we diligently work to embed best-in-class practices into our culture. We provide 
formal training on data privacy and cybersecurity during new hire orientation and offer 
continuous cybersecurity learning opportunities throughout the year. Additionally, we 
send Company-wide communications on key privacy and security topics, operate an 
internal discussion board to encourage cybersecurity dialogue, and host panels with 
leading industry experts during our annual Quality and Compliance Week. We also 
conduct periodic phishing tests to train employees to identify and appropriately respond 
to malicious external digital threats. Furthermore, we enhanced employee awareness 
around identifying and reporting breaches of customer privacy in 2021. 
Marketing Practices
We understand the importance of consistency and transparency in our communications 
with stakeholders. By encouraging ethical and responsible dialogue, we aim to operate 
in alignment with the interests of our customers and preserve trust in our business.  
Our teams adhere to the highest standards of integrity when labelling and marketing 
our products. 
Culture of Ethics
All employees, consultants, contract workers, and temporary staff must adhere  
to our Sales and Marketing Code of Ethics, which establishes mandatory standards 
for sales and marketing activities. In the U.S., our Sales and Marketing Code is based 
on the Code of Ethics of AdvaMed, our industry association, and built around six 
foundational values: innovation, education, integrity, respect, responsibility, and 
transparency. Internationally, our sales and marketing business practices are rooted in 
local codes, including the Code of Ethical Business Practice of MedTech Europe, as well 
as the codes of MedTech Canada and the Medical Technology Association of Australia. 
We expect every employee to adhere to applicable laws and industry guidelines when 
interacting with healthcare professionals and customers. 
We strictly follow our Sales and Marketing Code of Ethics in our communications  
to stakeholders regarding the safe and effective uses of our products in relation to  
on-label uses of medical technology. The code restricts communications about  
off-label uses or unapproved uses of approved products. We follow the code to ensure 
that our employees do not interfere with the independent judgement of healthcare 
professionals and refrain from using unlawful or unethical inducements, whether 
offered to healthcare professionals or certain customers with government-provided 
healthcare coverage. The code also requires compliance with anti-kickback laws, other 
applicable local, state, and federal regulations, and the AdvaMed Code of Ethics. We 
also follow local codes of ethics adopted by industry associations outside of the U.S., 
including those in Australia, Canada, the European Union, and the Middle East.
We train all sales and marketing employees on our ethical marketing policies and 
processes upon joining Insulet, and 100% of our sales and marketing employees 
receive annual refresher training as well. Other employees, based on their job function, 
are also trained on our Sales and Marketing Code of Ethics upon hire and through  
part of an annual refresher. Employees who suspect any ethical violations must 
notify their supervisor, the Company’s Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, or the 
anonymous Compliance and Ethics Hotline and Web Portal. We conduct regular reviews 
and internal audits through our Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) program to  
monitor compliance with our policies. 
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents 25Transparent Marketing and Labeling Practices 
We are committed to accurately describing our products using appropriate and 
understandable language. We foster cross-functional dialogue between our Marketing, 
Legal, and Regulatory Affairs departments to systematically review and approve 
product marketing and labelling materials and approve our product claims, label use, 
and direct-to-consumer advertising. We utilize a digital marketing approval process to 
review and track all promotional materials. Across our global operations, we adhere 
to regulatory labeling requirements in every market we serve and continually monitor 
our marketing practices to maintain compliance. In 2021, we had no U.S. FDA 483 
observations or warning letters of incidents of non-compliance related to product 
labeling or marketing communications.
Our Compliance department reviews and approves all expense reimbursements  
and other payments made to healthcare professionals to comply with our standards 
for payments, in accordance with industry codes and applicable laws. We encourage 
transparency by disclosing payments to healthcare professionals as required by 
applicable national reporting requirements in the countries where we operate. 
Human Rights
Protecting and advancing human rights across our global operations is a fundamental 
principle at Insulet. In our operations and supply chain, we prohibit child labor, forced 
labor, human trafficking, and slavery. We are not aware of any human rights violations 
that took place during 2021. Should we become aware of any human rights related 
issues in the future, we are prepared to take necessary corrective action. We are 
creating systems to identify, assess, and manage the risks of human trafficking in our 
product supply chain. Looking forward, we plan to implement internal accountability 
procedures and training for employees and management teams on human trafficking 
and slavery to mitigate risk within our supply chain.
Our dedication to human rights is grounded in our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics, which requires that we adhere to applicable laws and regulations, including 
those regarding fair labor and employment conditions. For information on our new 
Supplier Code of Conduct, which has stringent requirements of suppliers related to 
human rights, see the section on Supplier Responsibility . Furthermore, we comply with 
laws regarding human trafficking and slavery, including the California Supply Chains 
Act, the U.K. Modern Slavery Act, and the Australia Modern Slavery Act.
Protecting and advancing human  
rights across our global operations is  
a fundamental principle at Insulet.
Our Approach to Sustainability Contents Resilient
Operations
Maintaining resilience within our operations is an essential aspect of our 
business as customers worldwide depend on the continuous supply of our 
products for effective diabetes management. As we continue to grow and 
expand our global presence, we are focused on addressing the potential 
social and environmental impacts of our business and strive to increase the 
sustainability of our operations to responsibly manage our supply chain. 
We aim to preserve the health of the environment for our communities and 
implement a holistic strategy to embed sustainability throughout our business 
by concentrating our efforts around responsible use of energy, minimization  
of waste, and conservation of water resources.
Sustainable Operations 27
Supplier Responsibility  3 2
26 Contents 27Sustainable Operations
Fueling our growth with 
optimized resource use  
and transitioning to a  
low-carbon economy
As we grow with purpose, we are committed to increasing the sustainability of our 
operations to preserve our planet and build long-term value for our stakeholders. 
Minimizing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and decreasing our waste footprint 
will help us improve resilience and reduce risk across our global business. Building a 
strong, strategic foundation is critical to our success, and during 2021 we continued  
to focus on strengthening our baselining efforts to better understand our current 
impacts on the environment. In 2022, we plan to take the next steps to begin defining 
our ambitions and setting goals that reflect our priorities and drive our progress. 
Climate Change and GHG Emissions
Climate change is one of the most pressing issues facing society today, because the 
health of our planet directly affects the health of our communities. In response to 
increasing stakeholder demand for climate action and our recognition that we have 
a responsibility to manage our own impact, we are taking thoughtful steps to do our 
part to provide a sustainable future for the people and communities we serve. It is also 
critical that we consider communities that have been disproportionately affected by 
climate change by promoting equity through our actions.  
Resilient Operations Contents 28Roadmap to TCFD-Aligned Reporting  
TCFD has developed recommendations for effective reporting on climate-related 
risks to help businesses enhance transparency. The recommendations are 
structured around four thematic areas: governance, strategy, risk management, 
and metrics and targets. Our Board of Directors oversees climate risk at the  
highest level through the Nominating, Governance, and Risk Committee, and our 
Global Sustainability team leads our strategic efforts to mitigate the effects of 
climate change.
As part of our efforts to advance our climate change strategy, we have collaborated 
with key stakeholders to create a roadmap that identifies opportunities to develop 
TCFD-aligned reporting in the future. Future disclosures on key climate-related 
risks and opportunities should enable our stakeholders to better understand the 
financial impacts associated with climate change and contribute to investment in 
sustainable and resilient solutions. Climate Change Strategy
In 2021, we authored our Climate Change Statement  which outlines our steadfast 
commitment to protect our business from climate risk, reduce our contribution to 
climate change, and aid in the transition to a low-carbon economy. We also support 
the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) and plan to incorporate its recommendations into our future reporting. To 
achieve our goals, we intend to monitor and review potential climate-related risks and 
opportunities while improving the efficiencies of our facilities, reducing our emissions, 
and increasing our transition to renewable energy. We also plan to collaborate and 
engage with various internal and external stakeholders to advance the long-term 
sustainability of our business.
As part of our forward-looking strategy, we have ambitions to set a path toward 
net-zero operations that includes the establishment of targets for GHG emissions 
reductions and increased use of renewable energy. In 2021, we decreased our Scope 1 
GHG emissions by approximately 19% compared to 2020, because of warmer weather 
in 2021 and decreased use of humidification boilers. We also developed more accurate 
reporting of our refrigerant use across our locations. Our Scope 2 GHG emissions 
increased by approximately 24% in 2021 as more employees returned to our office 
locations and our product manufacturing increased. 
Reducing Emissions from Transportation
We strive to minimize our emissions from transportation and shipping by enhancing 
efficiency within our supply chain. To reduce emissions and fuel consumption, we use 
ocean freight as our main mode of transportation over air freight for inbound product 
shipments from our contract manufacturer. In 2021, we are proud to report that we 
exceeded our goal to ship 90% of inbound freight by ocean transport. We also aim 
to decrease transportation emissions and costs by optimizing our shipments. Where 
possible, we ship full pallets, maximizing the amount of product we can deliver and 
increasing shipping efficiency.
[5] We have restated our 2020 GHG emissions due to changes in calculations. We are continuously improving our data collection and validation processes to enhance the accuracy of our reporting  
 and ensure transparency.
Resilient Operations5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0GHG Emissions[5]
(Metric Tons of CO2e)
Scope 2 (Indirect) Location BasedScope 1 (Direct)
Scope 2 (Indirect) Market Based2021
4,0032,8241,38520201,709
2,273
3,761
Contents 29Energy Management
One way we work to address our GHG emissions is by carefully managing our energy 
footprint as our business grows. To accomplish this, we prioritize improvements in 
energy efficiency within our own facilities to target overall energy consumption, and  
we support the adoption of renewable energy in our local communities. 
Energy Efficiency
At our Acton, Massachusetts manufacturing facility, we use highly automated processes 
that optimize our product output and help to carefully manage our energy consumption. 
This advanced technology also minimizes human involvement in machine operation, 
therefore reducing health and safety risks. As we continue to expand globally, we 
look for energy-efficient buildings when opening newly leased offices. In 2021, we 
increased our total energy consumption by approximately 7% compared to 2020  
due to more employees in the office, expanded manufacturing, and increased air 
circulation to improve air quality during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Renewable Energy 
In 2020, we completed the first phase of our multi-year solar project by installing and 
activating approximately 2,800 solar panels at our corporate headquarters in Acton, 
Massachusetts—a visible symbol of our sustainability commitment. New sources of 
renewable energy help make our local electricity grid more sustainable while generating 
clean energy for our community. In 2021, we advanced the second phase of our solar 
strategy at our Acton, Massachusetts headquarters. By supporting alternative sources 
of energy, we aim to mitigate climate risk, accelerate the development and adoption of 
renewable technology, and help Massachusetts meet its renewable energy goals. We  
are excited to continue exploring future opportunities to invest in clean energy.
[6] We have restated our 2020 energy consumption due to changes in calculations. We are continuously improving our data collection and validation processes to enhance the accuracy of our reporting  
 and ensure transparency.
Resilient OperationsEnergy Consumption[6]
(MWh)
Direct Energy Consumption
Indirect Energy Consumption05,00010,00015,00020,000
Total: 18,344Total: 19,709
8,279
2020 20217,27212,437
10,065
Contents At our Acton, Massachusetts manufacturing 
facility, we use highly automated processes 
that optimize our product output and help to 
carefully manage our energy consumption. 30Waste Management
We actively manage our waste footprint by focusing on waste prevention and reduction 
across our operations and diverting any waste we do generate from landfill to avoid 
negative impacts on our local ecosystems and communities. To target specific 
opportunities for improvement, we increased our efforts to evaluate current waste 
generation and enhanced our data collection processes in 2021. 
Reducing Our Paper Waste  
At our headquarters in Acton, Massachusetts, we implemented a new printing 
process in 2021 to increase security, cut costs, and reduce waste. This system 
updated our default printing settings to double-sided, which is estimated to save 
as much as 1.2 million sheets of paper per year—equivalent to roughly 84 standard 
pine trees. To target specific opportunities  
for improvement, we increased our  
efforts to evaluate current waste  
generation and enhanced our data  
collection processes in 2021. 
Resilient OperationsTotal Waste Generated in 2021
(Metric Tons)
Total Waste Diverted from Landfill and Incineration in 2021
(Metric Tons)Office/Lab/Distribution: 266
Manufacturing: 544
Office/Lab/Distribution: 115
Manufacturing: 176810
Total
291
TotalAssessment and Measurement
To build on the foundation of our waste management strategy, we completed our first 
waste study in 2021. We worked with a qualified third party to observe and understand 
our waste-generating activities and to quantify the types of waste generated in our 
Acton, Massachusetts corporate office and manufacturing facility, as well as our 
distribution center in Billerica, Massachusetts. This assessment was critical to helping 
us understand our baseline performance and inform longer-term waste reduction goals. 
Through the waste audit, we identified immediate opportunities to increase our waste 
diversion rate through increased education and awareness in addition to longer-term 
measures. We are working to implement recommendations from the waste audit in 2022.
We generate waste in our offices, laboratories, distribution center, and manufacturing 
facilities. In 2021, we generated a total of 810 metric tons of waste and we diverted 
36% of our waste from landfill and incineration.
Contents 31Manufacturing Waste
At our manufacturing facilities, we must dispose of defective materials and components 
to maintain our strict standards for product integrity. During the production process, 
we promote operational consistency to create high-quality products and to reduce 
the number of Pods that require disposal due to defects or non-working parts. We 
also regularly service and update our manufacturing equipment. The installation of 
upgrades is critical to our process as it allows us to improve efficiency and drive down 
our rate of waste generation. In addition to optimizing our production process, we 
reclaim excess material where possible. If certain components, including the reservoir, 
batteries, and printed circuit board assembly, meet strict quality standards, we plan 
to reclaim the material and incorporate it into new Pods rather than disposing of these 
working parts. 
We also reduce manufacturing waste through our Lean and Six Sigma programs.  
We provide periodic updates to the executive team about our pipeline of projects, 
many of which result in environmental improvements, including the reduction of excess 
manufacturing material and paper waste and improvements in energy efficiency. During 
2021, over 35 projects were ongoing, of which 80% or more were identified as having 
an environmental impact. In the future, we aspire to develop a system for quantifying 
and tracking the environmental impact of our continuous improvement projects. 
For information about how we manage downstream waste and contribute to circular 
economy practices, see the sections on Product Stewardship  and Takeback and 
Recycling Programs .
Water Management
We are committed to using natural resources responsibly. As we grow and advance  
our sustainability strategy, we are continuing to build a baseline for our water 
management approach to better understand our impacts on the environment and track 
our performance. By creating a strong foundation, we hope to identify areas to improve 
efficiency and minimize our water footprint. In 2021, we used 619,033 cubic feet 
of water at our Acton, Massachusetts location. This past year, we improved our data 
tracking processes and identified additional sources of water usage in our operations, 
which led to a significant increase in our reported water usage compared to 2020. We 
strive to continuously improve our data collection systems to more accurately reflect 
our performance.The installation of upgrades is  
critical to our process as it allows us  
to improve efficiency and drive down  
our rate of waste generation. 
Resilient Operations Contents 32Supplier Responsibility
Engaging our suppliers 
to ensure quality and 
responsibility as we grow
We rely on our trusted suppliers to help us fulfill our mission and support simplicity, 
freedom, and healthier lives for the diabetes community. We promote responsible 
practices throughout our supply chain to uphold product quality, increase resiliency 
and efficiency, and minimize disruptions while delivering essential products to our 
customers. We partner with suppliers that share these commitments and work together 
to minimize risk and enhance supplier performance. 
Responsible Supply Chain Management
Our sustainable growth depends on our ability to integrate responsible business 
practices throughout our supply chain and to effectively manage our suppliers. This 
year, we expanded our efforts to promote responsibility within our supply chain by 
joining the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and adopting a Supplier Code of 
Conduct . We also regularly evaluate and manage risks in our supply chain to enable a 
dependable supply of products for our customers. Although the COVID-19 pandemic 
has continued to disrupt the global supply chain, our strategic management of our 
supply chain and our employees’ unwavering commitment to our customers allowed  
us to deliver essential products with no delays or backorders to our customers, all while 
protecting the health and safety of our workforce. For more information, see the section 
on Responding to COVID-19 .
Resilient Operations Contents 33Strategic Membership
We are committed to building a supplier responsibility program that integrates 
international best practices. In 2021, we became members of the RBA—the world’s 
largest industry coalition dedicated to improving responsibility in global supply chains. 
As Insulet grows in size and global presence, our membership in the RBA should 
enable us to build a strong foundational supplier responsibility program that effectively 
manages risk. By joining the RBA, we plan to leverage a wide range of resources and 
tools and to improve efficiency through shared audits and collaborative initiatives.
Supplier Code of Conduct 
We expect our suppliers to conduct business with integrity and care for our workers’ 
wellbeing and the sustainability of our planet. In 2021, we adopted the RBA Code 
of Conduct as our Supplier Code of Conduct . The requirements set out in the Code 
reference international norms and principles, including the United Nations Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, the United Nations Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, International Labor Organization Standards, Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, ISO 
standards, and many others. The Code also encourages suppliers to go beyond legal 
compliance to advance social and environmental responsibility and business ethics. 
[7] Our top spend suppliers are defined as the top 80% of pod component (Tier 1 and Tier 2), value-added manufacturing (Tier 1), and PDM (Tier 1) supplier spend.We hope that adopting the RBA Code of Conduct will accelerate the dissemination 
of a robust, widely accepted set of social and environmental standards throughout 
our supply chain. Moving forward, we will rely on our suppliers to act in accordance 
with the Code and to inform their own suppliers of the requirements, and we will 
work with suppliers to maintain compliance. The Code is updated every three years 
and is available in over 25 languages. In 2021, 100% of our top-spend suppliers[7]
acknowledged that they have read and understood our new Supplier Code.
Supply Chain Continuity
Our ability to maintain continuous supply directly impacts our customers, who depend 
on our products every day to manage their insulin levels. Without our Pods, our 
customers would face critical health risks. To ensure reliability, we incorporate cross 
qualification of suppliers to support efficient manufacturing. Our customer-centric 
approach to sustainable sourcing also focuses on dual and in-region sourcing, as well 
as cross-qualified sourcing, to maintain availability of high-quality components and  
to enhance our ability to deliver products regularly. 
Dual sourcing increases our access to critical materials and improves the flexibility of 
our supply chain. In some cases, we must use sole sourcing when the designs of certain 
components are proprietary and intellectual property rights are owned exclusively by 
one party. We manage risk for sole sourced components by holding inventory in-house 
and at the supplier’s facilities to ensure continuity of supply and low risk of disruption. 
Local sourcing through the use of regional suppliers located close to our manufacturing 
facilities in Massachusetts and in China ensures efficiency and provides environmental 
benefits by avoiding emissions from transportation. We plan to invest in a new 
manufacturing plant in another international location to further diversify globally and 
increase efficiency. Additionally, in January 2022, we acquired one of our suppliers 
to bring key intellectual property and expertise in-house, strengthen our production 
capabilities, and mitigate supply chain risks. Moving forward, we also plan to develop  
a multi-year enterprise resource planning upgrade to strengthen our infrastructure and 
increase our business resiliency.We expect our suppliers to conduct business 
with integrity and care for our workers’ 
wellbeing and the sustainability of our planet. 
Resilient Operations Contents 34Risk Management
We aim to partner with world-class suppliers that are committed to excellence and can 
grow with our Company. Our Global Procurement team is reviewing opportunities to 
incorporate environmental and social factors into our existing supplier selection and 
management processes. We plan to continue to formalize our supplier assessments to 
evaluate risk and develop measurements for performance.
Additionally, in 2021, we became certified through the U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection’s Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT). Through this 
program, we work to improve security and minimize risk in our supply chain. 
Quality Audits
We perform systematic quality audits every one to two years for our Class A suppliers 
and every two to three years for Class B suppliers[8] to evaluate their compliance with 
quality requirements. Our rigorous, independent auditing process assesses compliance 
and enables delivery of high-quality products to our customers. 
We conduct audits and perform physical or remote inspections of supplier facilities 
to evaluate and test quality control processes. We also perform desk evaluations of 
documented evidence and self-assessments. Additionally, we assess our suppliers’ 
Quality Management Systems, evaluate compliance with relevant quality requirements, 
document controls, validate processes, and monitor product documentation to maintain 
traceability. We audit suppliers against the ISO 13485 Medical devices – Quality 
management systems standard, and Tier 1 suppliers are required to adhere to the same 
standard within their own supply chain (i.e., our Tier 2 suppliers). Our robust auditing 
process allows us to identify any non-conformances that require remediation and 
supports our compliance with regulations and standards for quality. 
Furthermore, we collaborate with our suppliers to understand the supply of any tin, 
tantalum, tungsten, and gold (or conflict minerals) in our supply chain. For more 
information, please visit our Conflict Minerals Policy  and most recent Conflict Minerals 
Report  on our website.
[8] Class A and B suppliers are our most important suppliers.Traceability in Our Distribution Chain
We maintain complete component-level traceability in compliance with U.S. FDA 
regulations. In our distribution chain, we implement controls to systematically run 
batch reports that enable the traceability of all product batches by lot number. These 
controls keep us prepared in the event of a recall or issue related to quality and allow 
us to develop a comprehensive report that generates full lot traceability, including 
information for products sent directly to customers or distributors. Our distributors 
implement similar mechanisms to maintain traceability.
Resilient Operations Contents Product and Packaging Design 36
Product Takeback 46
Sustainable 
Product 
Innovation
We are focused on minimizing our products’ impact on the environment and 
designing our products to be inclusive of the diverse global diabetes community. 
Our product packaging and design processes integrate sustainability and 
customer needs throughout the full product lifecycle. To safely advance our 
revolutionary, customer-centric technology, we conduct comprehensive clinical 
trials, customer assessments, and quality evaluations. We also limit resource 
consumption and contribute to a circular economy through our product 
takeback programs. As we evolve our products, we intend to continue to explore 
opportunities to improve product sustainability and provide positive outcomes 
for our customers and our planet. 
35 Contents 36Product and Packaging Design
Innovating with customer 
centricity and the 
environment in mind
Aligned with our goal to simplify the lives of our customers, Omnipod facilitates 
convenience by offering an easier alternative to traditional insulin pumps or MDI therapy. 
As we develop our high-quality products, we integrate customer feedback, deliver on 
safety and effectiveness, and embed sustainability throughout the design process. 
Customer Centricity
Customer satisfaction remains a top priority at Insulet. Our Pods allow users to 
maintain their daily routines and enjoy what they love without focusing on their 
diabetes management. We continue to advance our products by incorporating valuable 
customer feedback to develop new features, such as smartphone integration. Our 
unwavering focus on our customers drives our commitment to simplify diabetes 
management and improve the usability of our products. 
Our Pods allow users to maintain their daily 
routines and enjoy what they love without 
focusing on their diabetes management.
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents 37Customer-Focused Design
Throughout our design process, our innovation marketing, hardware, and software 
teams gather deep insight on the unmet needs of people living with diabetes, 
accounting for a wide range of lifestyles and personal preferences to reflect the 
diversity of the diabetes community. We aim to simplify diabetes management and 
make diabetes a smaller part of life for people. Because of our customer-centric 
mindset, we designed our Pods to be small and lightweight, which makes them 
concealable and more discrete. Our products are simple to use, leading to easier  
on-boarding, training, and daily management. Pods can be worn for up to three days 
at a time and are tubeless and waterproof,[9] so customers can even wear them when 
showering, swimming, or performing other activities. Additionally, the Pods can deliver 
insulin continuously and eliminate the need for daily injections, so customers can  
enjoy greater flexibility with meals, exercise, and daily schedules.
To support customers with hearing or vision impairments, we provide various options 
for alarms and visual indicators. Customers in the U.S. can use the Omnipod DASH 
PDM in both English and Spanish, and we are working to build an end-to-end customer 
experience entirely in Spanish. We are committed to working with diverse communities 
to identify ways to make our products more inclusive in the future.
We listen when our customers share their daily experiences with our insulin delivery 
systems, and their feedback informs the continual improvement of our products. 
For example, customers requested a way to help keep their Pods in place during the 
summer months and while performing high-intensity activities, such as sports or 
swimming. In response, we developed PodPals, an adhesive overlay accessory for the 
Pod, available in the U.S. and Europe. The waterproof,[9] flexible design is custom fit 
for our Pods to allow our customers to enjoy a more active lifestyle. We also engage 
with customers during product design through our human factor and user experience 
testing, which allows us to gain direct insights from current customers.
[9] The Pod has an IP28 rating for up to 25 feet for 60 minutes. The PDM and Controller are not waterproof.
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents 38Technology Advancements
We leverage innovative technology in our product design to allow customers to integrate  
diabetes management more easily into their everyday lives. Omnipod DASH features a secure 
Bluetooth®-enabled Pod and PDM with the look and feel of a simple smartphone. The modern, 
interactive display allows users to easily check insulin levels and adjust dosing based on activity and 
diet. Based on further customer feedback, we developed an app that provides customers in the U.S. 
with quick and easy access to their PDM data on their smartphone and the option to share therapy 
status information with friends and family. Omnipod DASH also has complimentary Omnipod mobile 
applications, which give users the ability to see their CGM data and insulin delivery information 
together on a single screen on their compatible personal mobile device in the U.S. The PDM 
automatically uploads data nightly to provide users and their clinicians with cloud access to data. 
We leverage innovative technology in our product 
design to allow customers to integrate diabetes 
management more easily into their everyday lives.
We understand that as technology advances, more customers may want to use their personal 
smartphones and devices for diabetes management. As such, we designed Omnipod 5 to be controlled 
through a secure mobile app on customers’ compatible smartphones. This allows users to conveniently 
manage diabetes with fewer devices. Currently, the application is compatible with Android devices,  
and we are working on developing an iOS application so users with an iPhone can control Omnipod 
5 Pods. Constant wireless communication between Omnipod 5 and the Dexcom G6 CGM allows for 
automatic adjustments to insulin delivery to offer users new levels of freedom. In addition, we have  
a development agreement to integrate Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc.’s CGM with Omnipod 5 in the future. 
As we build the next generations of Omnipod, we are committed to continuing to leverage technological 
advancements while maintaining our steadfast focus on data privacy and product security.
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents 39Customer Training
Diabetes management can be difficult to understand, and we believe that training 
consumers on how to use Omnipod is an important factor to promote successful 
outcomes and customer retention. Since the system is easy to use, there is a reduced 
training burden on healthcare professionals and end users. We have streamlined 
and standardized our training by developing improved online resources, and we have 
increased the size of our Field Clinician team to directly train new Omnipod users. 
We have also built extensive on-boarding and training capabilities for the launch 
of Omnipod 5. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have continued to implement 
virtual training to on-board new Omnipod customers, and in 2021, nearly 35% of U.S. 
customers started virtually. The virtual training programs have been successful and 
provide customers with the option to view the program from the comfort of their own 
home with multiple family members present. We plan to continue to provide customers 
with the flexibility to choose in-person or virtual trainings to best fit their needs. 
Customer Satisfaction
Customer feedback is extremely valuable for improving our products and validating 
our approach, and we strive to exceed customer expectations. Our Marketing and 
Commercial teams conduct regular engagement surveys and extensive customer 
research to understand customer needs. We also run call centers where customers can 
provide feedback and receive information about our products. We integrate input from 
various stakeholders, including healthcare providers, payors, and customers, to create 
products that fulfill customer needs and build loyalty in our brand.Product Quality and Safety
It is essential that we hold our products to the highest standards of quality throughout 
the full product lifecycle because customers depend on Omnipod for safe and  
effective insulin delivery. We never compromise on quality, and we embed quality 
excellence throughout our Company culture. Our quality management policies and 
practices adhere to applicable laws and regulations regarding product quality, safety, 
and performance.
97%
of Omnipod users would recommend  
the product to a friend[10]
We never compromise on quality,  
and we embed quality excellence  
throughout our Company culture.
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents [10] Source: In a November 2019 satisfaction survey of 2,481 Omnipod DASH and Omnipod System users, 97% of respondents, if given the opportunity, would recommend the Omnipod System to a friend or colleague.40Oversight for Quality
From product design and manufacturing to testing and distribution, we monitor 
compliance through clear accountability and robust management systems. The  
Insulet Board of Directors oversees the Company’s quality performance and is regularly 
updated on our processes and progress. Our quality management processes are 
overseen by our Vice President, Quality Systems and Operations, who reports to our 
Executive Vice President and COO. 
We consistently meet customer and regulatory requirements through our Quality 
Management System (QMS), which drives quality excellence throughout our global 
operations. Our owned and contract manufacturing facilities that manufacture finished 
medical devices are required to be ISO 13485 certified, which specifies requirements 
for QMS in the medical device industry. The BSI Group, which periodically audits our 
facilities, maintains our certification, and has confirmed that our QMS conforms to the 
ISO 13485 Standard.
Our outside vendors produce components to our rigorous specifications, and they 
are audited periodically by our Quality Assurance department. Our Quality Assurance 
department also inspects and tests Omnipod at various steps in the manufacturing 
cycle to facilitate compliance with our standards. We are registered with the U.S. 
FDA, which performs regular inspections of our QMS, our manufacturing facilities, 
and our contract manufacturing facilities to confirm compliance with regulations and 
conformance to the QMS. Our robust audit system is certified under the Medical Device 
Single Audit Program and involves both internal and external auditors. As we expand 
globally and plan to open new manufacturing facilities, we continually update our QMS 
and audit system to align with each country’s compliance regulations. 
In 2021, we established a European lot qualification and complaints lab that is locally 
managed. This eliminates the need to send potentially biohazardous samples from 
Europe to the U.S. for testing or for complaint investigation. The newly launched lab is 
much closer to our facilities in the region, which shortens our supply chain, minimizes 
the distance to ship material, and reduces our emissions from transportation. Eliminating Waste in Our Quality Processes
As part of our commitment to reduce the environmental footprint of our  
business, we set a target to eliminate paper usage in our QMS by switching to 
100% electronic processes. In the healthcare industry, paper waste is a significant 
challenge due to the amount of documentation involved. However, we are  
diligently working to reduce this waste stream in our operations, and as of 2021  
we have implemented 17 electronic processes as part of our eQMS. Each 
electronic process represents multiple paper forms that are no longer required, 
and in 2022, we plan to implement at least four additional electronic processes. 
We are also supplementing our electronic transition by training employees to 
adjust their behaviors and practices to contribute to a more sustainable system. 
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents 41Risk Management
We identify and respond to potential issues through our risk management process, 
which is aligned with ISO 14971, the standard for risk management of medical devices. 
The findings from our risk management assessments inform our CAPA program. 
Through the CAPA program, we identify, review, and correct any QMS or manufacturing 
issues at our facilities to prevent recurrence. We continually monitor product safety and 
quality and provide monthly updates to senior leadership and other cross-functional 
teams. Our unwavering dedication to improving our performance is reflected in our 
rigorous product quality targets related to customer complaints, supply continuity, and 
our manufacturing process. 
Employee Education and Training
Our culture of quality is dependent on our employees upholding our high standards 
and sharing responsibility for the quality of our products. During new hire orientation, 
all employees must complete sessions on quality and regulatory requirements, and we 
also provide additional training based on employees’ roles and responsibilities.
In 2021, we rolled out training on our Lean Principles and 8D problem solving, primarily 
for our Manufacturing, Quality, and Regulatory teams, to improve process capability and 
reduce waste and product defects. We also updated our CAPA program to follow the 8D 
process, which has led to a higher rate of effectiveness. Our Senior Director of Business 
Transformation, hired in 2021, is responsible for embedding continuous improvement 
into our culture. Our culture of quality is dependent  
on our employees upholding our high 
standards and sharing responsibility  
for the quality of our products.Ethical Clinical Research
Clinical trials are a vital step in establishing the safety and effectiveness of our 
products. Our Senior Vice President and Medical Director is responsible for maintaining 
our strong standard for ethical conduct in our clinical trials, which are overseen by  
an Independent Review Board (IRB) that protects the welfare of research subjects.  
We also protect the rights and privacy of trial subjects and maintain quality by aligning 
with Good Clinical Practice, an international standard for ethical and scientific quality. 
We do not conduct or outsource testing on animals.
We comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the research and testing 
of our products and routinely meet with regulatory bodies to discuss the safety and 
efficacy of our trial designs. The U.S. FDA reviews and approves our significant risk 
protocols before we begin testing. After a trial concludes and when the data are 
available, we publish our findings in peer-reviewed scientific journals and conferences.
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents 42Quality Product Packaging
Our Quality department is responsible for maintaining our strict quality standards for 
packaging to avoid contamination and maintain sterility. We adhere to international 
standards of packaging including: 
• ISO 11607-1 and ISO 11607-2:  Packaging for terminally sterilized medical devices
• ISO 11135:  Sterilization of healthcare products
• ISO 10993:  Biological evaluation of medical devices
Innovation, Research and Development,  
and Intellectual Property
We are motivated by our dedication to improve and simplify the lives of people with 
diabetes and are constantly looking for innovative ways to evolve our products. Our 
devices lead to improved outcomes and revolutionize diabetes management by 
incorporating advanced algorithms, growing datasets and analytics, and smartphone 
connectivity. Throughout our research and design process, we encourage employees  
to think creatively to deliver unique designs that exceed customer expectations.We are motivated by our dedication to 
improve and simplify the lives of people 
with diabetes and are constantly looking for 
innovative ways to evolve our products.
Sustainable Product InnovationQuality and Compliance Week   
We hosted our sixth annual Quality and Compliance week in 2021. The goal of 
the program is to educate employees at all levels of the Company and improve 
recognition for the importance of quality and compliance. Quality and Compliance 
Week remains a critical part of our corporate culture and contributes to the 
success of our business. In 2021, the theme was Simplify the Future, which 
reflects our commitment to make the lives of our customers easier through our 
innovative, intuitive technology. We are also optimizing our processes to become 
more efficient and effective in all aspects of our business. 
Topics focused on customers and healthcare providers, and the program  
included presentations from our CEO, COO, and Chief Commercial Officer (CCO).  
As we continue to grow globally, Quality and Compliance Week promotes our 
common values and expectations which are consistently shared and maintained 
throughout our organization. We are proud that our employees’ continued 
commitment to uphold our strong standards and culture of quality drives our 
competitive advantage.
6,000+
training hours1,521
attendees71
sessions
56
presenters8
external speakers
Contents 43Our Research and Development teams are comprised of best-in-class talent who 
conduct thorough research, design collaboratively, and robustly test our products to 
maintain safety and efficacy for our customers. We continue to research opportunities 
to embed sustainability within our products to reduce our impact on the environment. 
We follow a formalized technology and product development process that aligns with 
best practices and U.S. FDA regulations: 
Stage 1: Product Definition 
Commercial and clinical teams identify unmet user needs or opportunities to offer  
product solutions that significantly enhance the user experience.
Stage 2: Early-Stage Feasibility
Teams conduct in-depth research and feasibility studies to start broadly solving  
the core problem(s) and any peripheral problems in the space.
• Generate, prototype, and test concepts to provide confidence in the solution space
• Create and file intellectual property 
• Conduct early user validation activities to ensure the product addresses  
core customer requirements and unmet needs 
• Establish business cases and achieve organizational alignment
Stage 3: Design Controls 
Insulet has robust design control processes which adhere to quality system standards 
and regulations and range in duration depending upon complexity of the program  
and product.
• Phase A:  Concept and Initial Planning 
• Phase B:  Design Planning and Input 
• Phase C:  Design and Development/Output
• Phase D:  Design Verification and Validation 
• Phase E:  Design Transfer 
• Phase F:  Release to Market and Post Market Surveillance Employees Innovating for the Future   
In 2021, we hosted an inaugural innovation competition. Employees were 
challenged to come up with an innovative business idea focused on driving  
gross margin improvement to help achieve our Company goals. Teams and 
individuals submitted over 40 creative ideas for the competition and our executive 
leaders judged the pitch sessions. More than 100 employees participated in  
the competition, which fostered a greater focus on sustainability throughout  
our Company. 
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents 44Product Stewardship
We consider environmental and health factors when sourcing materials, designing 
devices, and manufacturing products in response to increasing stakeholder demand 
for sustainable products and packaging. While the medical device industry faces 
unique challenges and specific requirements, we seek opportunities to reduce 
the environmental impacts at every stage of the product lifecycle. Our Design and 
Production teams continue to evaluate and implement solutions to make our products 
more sustainable and efficient while maintaining our customer-centric mindset and 
high standards for product quality and safety. 
Design and Production
We incorporate product stewardship from the very beginning of the lifecycle, the  
design stage. In addition to focusing on our customers’ needs, our Design teams 
consider the environmental impact of our products and strive to build our devices 
from high-quality, safe, and sustainable materials. We minimize waste and decrease 
the amount of source material required by designing smaller Pods and increasing the 
recyclability and reusability of individual components or subsystems. Our Controllers 
and many of our PDMs use rechargeable batteries which enable longer lifecycles and 
reuse. The batteries within the Pods do not contain heavy metals, such as mercury, 
and we avoid hazardous materials in our devices to comply with the European Union 
Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) requirements. 
In 2021, we established a cross-functional packaging and labeling working group to 
holistically streamline our packaging designs and foster more robust engagement 
from stakeholders. The working group reviews updates to existing packaging and new 
packaging designs, and sustainability is now a guiding factor when making any changes 
to packaging or labeling. Our packaging includes low-cost, highly recyclable materials, 
including cardboard and paper-based trays, and we are exploring ways to continue 
optimizing and reducing the amount of materials we use in our packaging. We have  
set clear sustainability guidelines to better inform our packaging and plan to launch 
new packaging designs in the future. To avoid excess packaging material during 
shipping, we also recirculate trays that suppliers use to ship components to our 
manufacturing facility.In addition, we are working to identify opportunities to reduce the use of virgin, 
fossil-fuel based plastics in our products and packaging. We plan to continue to 
investigate and work with plastic vendors to take actionable steps to further reduce 
the environmental impact of our products. We also minimize our own waste during 
the manufacturing process for our products by managing scrap plastic and silicone 
materials. For more information, see the section on Waste Management . 
Sustainable Sterilization 
Following U.S. FDA requirements, we sterilize all products prior to customer  
delivery through third-party partners. Our Quality Engineering team manages our  
long-term relationships with the companies that sterilize our products. We require  
our partners to adhere to ISO 11135, which sets standards for the development, 
validation, and routine control of sterilization processes for medical devices. We 
collaborate with our partners to embed environmental and health considerations  
into our sterilization process. 
Ethylene oxide is commonly used as a sterilant in the healthcare and medical device 
industries. However, the compound is designated as a hazardous air pollutant by  
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). We regularly test for ethylene oxide 
residuals and evaluate opportunities to reduce our use of the compound where 
possible to protect the health and safety of our employees and communities. 
Our sterilization partners operate multiple facilities in Europe and established two 
additional locations in the U.S. in 2021. These facilities utilize advanced technology and 
equipment to reduce the concentration of ethylene oxide, using inert gas as a filler, and 
minimize the total use of the sterilant used throughout the process, while maintaining 
product sterility. These initiatives enhance our product safety, promote a safer 
environment for employees and suppliers, and lead to reduced emissions. Looking 
forward, one of our partners is planning on qualifying at least one more facility in 2022 
and our overall goal is to reduce ethylene oxide use at all sites. 
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents  “We aim to minimize our products’ carbon footprint, reduce 
landfill waste, and offer a superior experience for our users.”
Eric Benjamin, Executive Vice President  
Innovation, Strategy, and Digital Products45Coming Full Circle: Sustainable Design  
and Innovation Workshops   
In 2021, more than 25 Insulet employees across all parts of the product 
lifecycle participated in two cross-functional workshops, centered on Design for 
Disassembly and Sustainable Materials. Led by our Global Sustainability team, 
we provided workshop attendees with both educational resources as well as 
opportunities for participants to collaborate and brainstorm on how to apply these 
learnings in future designs. Participants dove deep into content about design 
for disassembly principles such as modularity, reversible fastening, recycling 
methodologies, and plastic alternatives. This exercise not only facilitated new, 
innovative ideas, but also fostered effective collaboration between representatives 
from our Engineering, Manufacturing, Research and Development, and Global 
Procurement teams. 
Bringing employees together to learn about these principles and brainstorm ideas 
is a key step toward building our capabilities for circular design. These workshops 
led to the development of our Sustainable Design Principles, which we will strive 
to incorporate in our current and future product innovations to increase the 
sustainability of our Pods, PDMs, and Controllers.Circular Economy
Waste generation is a key issue in the medical device industry due to the disposable 
nature of many products and the strict regulations for handling biohazardous waste. We 
recognize that our Pods contribute to the global waste issue; however, we are exploring 
possibilities to shift to a more circular approach, which reduces resource use, leverages 
recyclable and renewable materials, and recovers and recycles waste to manufacture 
new products. 
The transition from a linear to circular business model requires our teams to think 
about how the Pod, PDM, and Controller are designed and manufactured and what 
happens after the Pods have been used. A circular business model would allow for the 
materials in the Pod, PDM, and Controller to be reused, recycled, or repurposed in such 
a way that the whole product does not end up in a landfill. In turn, this can provide 
financial benefits as well as reduce environmental impacts from product manufacturing 
and disposal.
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents 46Product Takeback
Minimizing the 
environmental footprint  
of our products across  
the full lifecycle 
While adhering to applicable requirements to properly dispose of medical waste, we 
effectively manage our waste and reduce our impact on the environment through our 
product takeback programs. These efforts allow us to reduce the amount of waste we 
send to landfills and contribute to the circular economy. By reclaiming product materials, 
we can continue to extract value from our products, even after end of use.  
Takeback Programs
We are continuously looking for ways to reduce the number of products that end up in 
landfills, examining our business model, and actively investigating opportunities to offer 
product takeback programs to more customers around the world. In 2021, customers 
throughout Europe and Canada were able to return used Pods for responsible disposal 
through our takeback programs. 
In countries where we implement a takeback program, such as Canada, Germany, 
and the U.K., customers receive return packaging with their new shipment of Pods. 
Customers collect used Pods and mail them to a location where they are diverted from 
landfills. In Europe, the used Pods are incinerated to generate electricity through a 
waste-to-energy process. 
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents 47Through our takeback and recycling program in France, customers fill a return  
carton with used Pods and drop them off at select pharmacies. Our recycling partners 
manage the collection and recycling process. Once the Pods are collected, they are 
separated into metallic and non-metallic parts and an automated robot separates 
the batteries from other electrical components, which are then delivered to a battery 
recycling facility. The Pods are grinded with a shredding machine and the non-metallic 
ore materials are further processed to single out stainless steel, lead, copper, gold, 
plastic, and fiber, all of which are sent to specialized channels for recycling. 
95%
of Pod materials by weight are recycled in France
[11] Our 2021 data reflects all global data, while previous years only reflect partial data. We began disclosing total number of Pods accepted for takeback in 2021. France recycles 95% of Pod components by weight.Product Takeback[11]2019 2020 2021
Total weight of Pod 
materials accepted for 
takeback (metric tons)22.0 39.0 135.8
Total number of Pods 
accepted for takeback– – 5,222,709
Sustainable Product Innovation Contents Health and Wellbeing 49
Attracting, Engaging, and Retaining Our Talent 54
People and 
Communities
We are active members of the global diabetes community, and while Omnipod 
continues to be our single biggest direct contribution to minimizing the effects 
of diabetes, we recognize that treatment is just one aspect of making diabetes 
a smaller part of people’s lives. That’s why Insulet is proud to partner with 
organizations around the world—large and small—who share our passion for 
improving the lives of people with diabetes. Beyond financial support for partner 
organizations, we provide educational resources and opportunities to form 
connections with others and advocate for diabetes policy initiatives.
Our dedication to creating positive social impacts also extends to our own 
community at Insulet. Through our inclusive and inspiring culture, we enable 
our employees to succeed in the workplace and offer employees opportunities 
to give back to the diabetes community. As we grow responsibly, we continue 
to develop our own workforce and foster a respectful, safe, and engaging 
environment for our teams. 
48 People and Communities Contents 49Health and Wellbeing
Improving lives of  
people in the global 
diabetes community
At Insulet, we are not only developing innovative products for people with diabetes;  
we also directly engage and partner with the diabetes community. We are dedicated  
to improving the lives of people with diabetes across the world and accelerating access 
to care. We also work to encourage the adoption of our technology by promoting the 
advantages of continuous insulin delivery. Our unique business model and strategic 
market penetration reflect our inclusive mindset.   
Affordability and Accessibility 
We strongly believe that the cost of medical devices should not create undue  
burden on families managing diabetes or prevent people from accessing care that  
may improve their health. Restrictions on coverage that impact accessibility persist  
in many countries, irrespective of healthcare system design. We strive to offer 
innovative options that enable greater access to our products. In applicable markets, 
we offer an innovative payment model that aims to reduce barriers that arise from 
existing payment structures, which facilitates improved access to technology and 
enables people to effectively manage their diabetes. We also collaborate with 
government agencies and health organizations to promote an affordable approach 
that reflects local needs. Aligned with our mission, we build our business model 
and products with a customer-centric focus and empower our customers to enjoy 
simplicity, freedom, and healthier lives.
People and Communities Contents 50Access to Better Outcomes
We promote increased accessibility to our innovative technology because our  
products enable our customers to manage their diabetes with unprecedented freedom, 
comfort, convenience, and ease. The simplicity and flexibility of tubeless continuous 
insulin delivery pumps fit a variety of lifestyles compared to MDI therapy or the use 
of traditional pump and tubing. Our discreet, tubeless, waterproof[12] Pods streamline 
diabetes management, which improves customer satisfaction and allows people to 
manage their diabetes effectively.
Compared to MDI therapy, several studies suggest that the use of Omnipod by 
individuals with both type 1 and insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes across all age  
groups is associated with better glycemic control and reduced frequency and severity 
of hypoglycemic episodes. Improving upon these outcomes, pivotal results during  
the Omnipod 5 clinical trials show increased time-in-range for users and reduction  
of episodes of severe hypoglycemia or diabetic ketoacidosis. We continue to work  
to increase access to our clinically proven and cost-effective technology to improve  
health benefits for people living with diabetes.
Pricing and Distribution
Our unique pricing model reflects our steadfast belief that convenient care should 
be affordable. Across multiple markets, traditional insulin pumps require customers 
to pay a significant upfront cost and commit to a four-year lock-in period. Customers 
may also be subject to expensive costs if they try to switch products, deterring people 
from choosing more affordable pricing structures. These factors severely limit the 
accessibility of innovative diabetes technology. Our pay-as-you-go business model simplifies payments, removes affordability barriers, 
and enables greater access to our innovative products that are designed to simplify 
people’s lives. This payment option is available to end-users in the U.S., and we  
intend to offer this model in additional markets in the future. Through our monthly,  
pay-as-you-go cost structure, we removed upfront fees that discourage customers  
from switching products.
We also promote efficient distribution of products to customers to enable convenient 
access. In the U.S., Omnipod is the only brand of insulin pumps available in pharmacies. 
The pharmacy channel makes it easier for healthcare providers to issue prescriptions 
and for people with diabetes to access treatment. We eliminated lock-in periods for 
our products distributed through pharmacies to support flexibility, and the majority of 
customers pay a monthly copay of less than $50 USD. We strive to be transparent about 
our costs and this approach provides customers with greater visibility and enables 
them to anticipate expenses. 
As we develop new devices, we prioritize simplifying the user experience to enhance 
our customers’ quality of life and enable wider accessibility. We strategically plan our 
pricing and distribution efforts to support this goal and offer our innovative technology 
at a global level. 
[12] The Pod has an IP28 rating for up to 25 feet for 60 minutes. The PDM and Controller are not waterproof.Supporting Flexible Decision Making
Our 30-Day Free Trial, offered in the U.S. for Omnipod DASH, allows customers 
to experience the health and lifestyle benefits of our tubeless, waterproof[12] Pod 
with no upfront cost or long-term commitment, providing peace-of-mind in their 
decision-making process.
As demand for product has grown in the U.S., we have propelled our 30-Day Free 
Trial strategy by investing in a multi-channel direct-to-consumer campaign, igniting 
social media, television commercials, and email campaigns to drive increased 
awareness of this program. 
Our unique pricing model reflects  
our steadfast belief that convenient  
care should be affordable.
People and Communities Contents 51Approach to New Markets
We estimate that approximately one-third of the type 1 diabetes population in the 
U.S. and even less of the type 1 diabetes population outside the U.S. use insulin pump 
therapy. An even smaller portion of the insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes population in 
and outside of the U.S. use insulin pump therapy. We believe these factors contribute 
to significant market opportunity for Omnipod, and one of our key imperatives is to 
prioritize, enter, activate, and differentiate our products in global markets. In 2021, we 
expanded into two new countries and currently plan to expand our global footprint in 
the Middle East in 2022. 
Our International Market Access team, which we broadened in scale and scope in 
2021, is responsible for spearheading access within new markets and removing 
adoption barriers such as affordability. The team focuses on establishing differentiated 
payment pathways to accelerate adoption and engaging local stakeholders to advocate 
and shape a supportive policy landscape for Pod therapy. We are also structuring our 
operations under regional vice presidents to help us better understand local market 
needs and coordinate resources and capabilities across our Company to scale the 
business. In addition, we have developed a center of excellence to provide support on 
pricing, reimbursement, and public affairs. We look to enter underdeveloped markets 
to increase access to diabetes management devices and improve care for people living 
with diabetes around the world. As we develop our approach to new markets, we are 
integrating experience and insights to continually enhance our strategy and respond to 
the needs of our customers. 
Financial Assistance Program
We offer a Financial Assistance Program  in the U.S. and Canada to help eligible 
customers continue to enjoy the benefits of Omnipod when financial challenges arise. 
Customers who are uninsured, have insurance that does not cover Omnipod or one of 
its individual components, or cannot afford their insurance out-of-pocket obligations are 
qualified to apply for this program. Furthermore, we offer a copay card program through 
the pharmacy channel to lower the total out-of-pocket costs for qualifying customers.
People and Communities Contents 
 “People with diabetes should have a choice when it  
comes to their treatment and we’re dedicated to helping 
them advocate for affordable access to the latest medical 
advances and cutting-edge technologies.”
Bret Christensen, Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer52Policy and Advocacy 
We advocate for policies on the national and international levels that drive 
technological innovation and increase the accessibility of effective diabetes 
management technology. Diabetes technology is rapidly advancing, and we are working 
to make sure policies are in place to support acceleration to market. Along with our 
stakeholders, including clinicians, healthcare providers, suppliers, advocacy groups, 
government organizations, health authorities, and trade associations, we understand 
the critical importance of affordability and accessibility in the medical device and 
healthcare industries. 
Continual Improvement
We are continuing to mature our advocacy program. Currently, we are monitoring 
policies on issues important to people with diabetes and to our organization, such as 
affordability and accessibility, data privacy, cybersecurity, and telehealth, and we are 
exploring opportunities to actively shape policies moving forward. We conduct periodic 
benchmarking assessments to better understand our global advocacy program, assess 
unmet needs, and identify opportunities to be leaders in diabetes advocacy. Our most 
recent benchmarking revealed that Insulet is viewed as an industry leader in innovation 
and overall community engagement.
Advocacy for Access
We actively engage with the diabetes community in the U.S. through our portal, 
Advocacy for Access . This resource educates and empowers those impacted by 
diabetes to advocate for affordable access to diabetes technology. We encourage 
people to make a difference by learning how to speak out and take action to advocate 
for change through their health insurance company. The portal provides tips, 
video testimonials, and an action center, which enables users to easily generate a 
personalized email or a tweet that is automatically directed to their health insurance 
company. In 2021, we added a module that educates users on how to advocate with 
their employers for better diabetes technology coverage. In addition to providing a 
video and tips on employer advocacy, the portal enables users to speak with Insulet’s 
expert patient advocacy navigators to gain further insights on how to effectively 
advocate with employers. In 2021, more than 1,700 people acted by sending emails  
or tweets via our online portal.
People and Communities Contents 
53Partnerships for Innovation
Not only are our partnerships and sponsorships important for driving technology 
accessibility, but also for improving positive health outcomes and advancing innovative 
research. In 2021, we collaborated with many advocacy groups in the U.S. and 
internationally. Examples of our partners include:
• Association of Diabetes Care & Education Specialists (ADCES):  This  
multi-disciplinary organization is comprised of more than 14,000 diabetes and 
education care specialists dedicated to improving diabetes care through innovative 
education, management, and support. Insulet is a member of their Industry 
Advisory Board and has collaborated with ADCES to provide innovative educational 
programming that ultimately improves the lives of people living with diabetes.
• Beyond Type 1/Beyond Type 2:  This non-profit organization is leveraging social 
media and technology to educate the global community about diabetes and provide 
resources and support for those living with diabetes. Insulet supports the Beyond 
Type 2 web portal, which is the first online community dedicated to people  
with type 2 diabetes and has also sponsored international educational portals  
in multiple languages.
• Children With Diabetes:  This non-profit empowers people of all ages living with 
diabetes and provides support, education, and inspiration for families affected by 
diabetes. Insulet is a member of their Industry Advisory Board and a major sponsor 
of their conference where Insulet supports educational sessions for the entire 
family, presents exhibits, and gathers insights on the latest product innovation.
• Diabetes Mine:  This organization publishes the Healthline newsletter, which 
provides readers with the latest diabetes news and advocates for innovation in 
diabetes care. Insulet sponsored two major technology summits in 2021. 
• DiaTribe Foundation:  This foundation is dedicated to advocating for and improving 
the lives of people with diabetes, prediabetes, and obesity. Insulet is a member of 
their Time in Range (TIR) Coalition that aims to establish TIR as the primary glucose 
metric for daily diabetes management globally. 
• JDRF:  This non-profit is a leading global innovator in type 1 diabetes research. 
Through our partnership, we work to accelerate life-changing breakthroughs to 
cure, prevent, and treat type 1 diabetes and its complications. In 2021, we were  
a national sponsor for a virtual JDRF fundraiser, Sun Life Walk to Cure Diabetes,  
in Canada. The event brought together Canadians from coast to coast to unite  
and raise funds to advance the pace of type 1 diabetes research. • Joslin Diabetes Center:  This center provides care to people living with diabetes and 
pioneers groundbreaking research in support of their mission to cure diabetes. In 
2021, we supported the Joslin High Hopes Gala to raise funds for Joslin’s clinical 
care, research, and educational programs.
• Sansum Diabetes Research Institute (SDRI):  This institution is dedicated to 
improving the lives of people impacted by diabetes through research, education, and 
care. We were a major sponsor of SDRI’s Taste of the Vine Benefit, which supported 
the advancement of new technologies and groundbreaking diabetes treatment. 
People and Communities Contents 54Attracting, Engaging, and Retaining Our Talent
Managing and  
engaging our talent
People represent our most valuable asset and remain the source of our innovation and 
success in bringing our mission to life. As such, we strive to attract and retain the best 
talent with competitive talent acquisition, talent management, reward, and retention 
strategies which include building an inspiring, empowering, and inclusive culture. A key 
to our success has been our commitment to proactively adapt and evolve our human 
capital programs to keep pace with the changing needs of our rapidly expanding global 
organization and external market dynamics. Our areas of focus are:
• Talent attraction and on-boarding 
• Talent management and  
succession planning 
• Assessment and development 
• Culture evolution and our Future  
of Work initiative• Employee engagement  
and retention 
• Diversity, equity, and inclusion 
• Total rewards and benefits  
In 2021, we made significant progress in evolving these areas to drive impact, enhance 
our employer value proposition, and gain a competitive advantage in the market. We 
plan to continue these efforts in 2022 and as part of our multi-year people strategy. In 
addition, we promote employee wellbeing through our robust occupational health and 
safety management system, and we encourage our people to live our values by creating 
a positive impact in their local communities.
People and Communities Contents 55Talent Management and Retention 
As we grow globally, we continue to foster a culture where all employees are 
empowered to express their ideas and creativity in their jobs each day. This includes 
cultivating an environment where all employees feel welcomed, respected, and valued, 
love what they do, and have fun achieving the remarkable. To encourage professional 
growth, we also offer multiple development opportunities for our employees to  
build their knowledge and advance their careers. Our talent management efforts and 
company culture influence our talent retention while reflecting our employer brand  
in the market; therefore, we strive to promote a culture that emphasizes engagement  
and contributes to overall success and wellbeing of our employees. 
Talent Attraction 
Our talent acquisition strategy focuses on attracting diverse, purpose-driven, skilled 
individuals who can help us deliver on our mission and meet the demands of our  
rapidly growing organization. As part of our talent pipeline development, we offer  
a cooperative education (co-op) program, which provides university students with  
hands-on, meaningful work experience in the medical device industry, as well as 
professional development and mentorship opportunities. Our partnerships connect us 
with rising talent and generate greater interest in our Company. In 2021, we partnered 
with multiple universities to host over 100 students through our co-op program. As we grow globally, we continue to  
foster a culture where all employees are 
empowered to express their ideas and 
creativity in their jobs each day.
People and Communities Contents 
56We also partner with universities in the CaliBaja region of Mexico to bring in trainees for 
year-long training programs. Trainees that have excelled with Insulet are often hired as 
associate engineers upon graduation. More than 70 trainees have participated in the 
program, which promotes growth for young talent while supporting our pipeline, and 
over 40 were hired to permanent positions. We are currently exploring new incentives 
to strengthen the program with additional opportunities.
We also proactively incorporate diverse perspectives and inclusive practices into our 
hiring efforts. For more information, see the section on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion . 
Talent Management
Our approach to talent management directly affects our ability to retain our employees 
and achieve our business strategy. We prioritized a critical need in 2021 to enhance 
and evolve our talent practices to gain a competitive advantage. A key aspect of our 
work was identifying Insulet’s Enterprise Critical Roles, which represent positions 
that provide a differentiated scale of financial impact or revenue generation for the 
business. In 2022, we plan to assess, develop, and enable high performance in these 
roles. A similar approach will be cascaded further into our functional organizations. 
To strengthen our internal talent pipeline, we also developed succession plans for 
each member of our Executive Leadership Team. We identified a range of successors, 
including those that are readily prepared and those at earlier stages of their careers, 
and we will focus on targeted development to support their professional growth. 
We created talent pools comprised of employees across multiple business areas to 
strengthen our talent pipeline and leverage the diverse skills of our teams. 
Our Executive Leadership Team performs regular talent reviews and organizes strategic 
meetings to proactively monitor and forecast job changes, promotions, developments, 
and new hire needs. We aim to analyze opportunities to retain our talent and foster 
career growth within the Company. In 2021, 27% of our Executive Leadership Team 
successors, Enterprise Critical Roles incumbents, and high potential talent took on new 
roles to continue their career development.
In 2022, we intend to expand our succession planning activities beyond the Executive 
Leadership Team. We also plan to perform retention risk assessments and pursue 
strategies to proactively promote talent retention. 
People and Communities Contents 
We prioritized a critical need in 2021 to 
enhance and evolve our talent practices  
to gain a competitive advantage.57Performance Management
Defining clear, individual goals and calibrating performance enables our employees 
to progress toward their career goals and advance our high-achievement culture. 
In 2021, we simplified our performance process and enabled managers to foster 
dialogue with their teams, provide feedback, and identify areas for development to 
optimize performance. Our performance management process was further integrated 
with Insulet’s annual operating planning and compensation process. Through this 
approach, we accelerated our 2022 goal-setting process, identified cross-functional 
dependencies with greater accuracy, and better aligned our goals across our business. 
Our collaboration facilitates greater productivity and ensures that our people focus on 
what matters most. All employees participate in our performance management process.
Professional Development Programs
People development is key for growing our internal talent into leaders of the future.  
It also enables employees to achieve their career aspirations and optimize their 
business impact. Therefore, we offer multiple programs for employees to continue 
developing their leadership and technical skills: 
• Individual Development Planning:  Managers and employees create individual 
development plans as desired across the organization to support career growth  
and development. In 2022, we plan to launch a Company-wide development 
initiative to ensure that employees have the option to create a robust development 
plan with defined actions to grow their career. We expect this work to have a 
positive impact on the engagement and retention of our people while further 
promoting a people-focused mindset. 
• R.I.T.E. (Respect, Integrity, Teamwork, Excellence) Start New Hire Education:  
All new employees complete the R.I.T.E. Start On-boarding Program, which provides 
a holistic view of Insulet, our mission, our product, diabetes, our customers,  
our culture, our business strategy, and our legal and regulatory environment. 
We converted this program to a virtual platform in 2020 to respond to the global 
pandemic. This global program allows for consistency in how we acclimate new 
employees to Insulet and promotes connections between our locations. We also 
offer intensive Customer Care New Hire training and Sales (Field and Inside Sales) 
New Hire training to quickly strengthen the expertise of our new employees in  
these areas.• New Manager, Leadership, and Technical Training Programs:  Programs such as 
first-line manager training, software skills training, and leadership training provide 
employees with the necessary skills to have a greater impact in their current 
position and prepare them for their next position. In 2021, we offered over 168 
programs, and employees across the Company completed 5,000 training hours.
• Mentoring Program:  We launched a six-month mentoring pilot program through 
our Employee Resource Groups in 2021. This provided one-on-one partnerships 
between leaders across Insulet to support mentees with individual and career 
development, collaboration, and leadership opportunities. In 2021, employees 
completed over 200 hours of mentoring as part of the pilot. 
• Insulet Learning Platform:  We offer employees an online, on-demand Insulet 
Learning platform in partnership with a third party. Based in neuroscience 
principles, this microlearning program delivers digestible content that promotes 
opportunities to improve mindfulness, innovation, inclusion, and other priorities. 
• Upskilling Program:  In 2021, we started a two-year workforce training program 
to upskill our manufacturing employees who work in Massachusetts. This program 
provides skilled training to employees who were promoted to supervisory positions 
in addition to employees who are interested in developing their skills to advance 
their careers. Trainings cover topics such as effective problem-solving techniques, 
supply chain management, conflict resolution, team building, and Lean Six Sigma 
and DMAIC principles.People development is key for growing  
our internal talent into leaders of the future.  
It also enables employees to achieve  
their career aspirations and optimize  
their business impact.
People and Communities Contents 58 People and CommunitiesOur Culture Evolution
In 2021, we continued to adapt our culture to meet our growing needs by driving decision making  
down to our next level of leaders, increasing our productivity, and positively impacting engagement.  
We created “sounding board” sessions to receive feedback on our draft operational plans, and we 
engaged our Executive Leadership Team to provide input on our strategic direction and implementation 
plans. This work has started to enhance the creativity, expertise, and knowledge of our employees  
while advancing our business strategy. 
In addition, we took proactive steps to foster a culture of employee wellness and safety in response 
to the COVID-19 pandemic. We implemented Future of Work surveys and pilot programs to redefine 
the way we work, and we responded to employee feedback by providing greater flexibility. We also 
developed a “choice with responsibility” philosophy, along with guiding principles, to empower 
employees to choose the flexible work arrangement best suited for them, while holding them 
accountable for their individual and team performance. Our new principles enable us to attract a 
broader, more diverse talent pool that seeks flexibility in where they work. For more information  
about our policies related to the Future of Work, see the section on Benefits . 
In 2022, the Executive Leadership Team plans to develop a multi-year vision to ensure we build  
a culture that continues to meet future employee and business needs in response to an evolving  
external marketplace.
Employee Engagement
For the first time in history, organizations across the world have four generations of talent working 
side by side in the workplace. This presents a dynamic and vibrant community where the diversity of 
perspectives and ideas can contribute to our collective success. To ensure that our culture constantly 
evolves to reflect the changing needs of our multi-generational workforce, we regularly engage our 
employees as part of our strategy.
For the first time in history, organizations across  
the world have four generations of talent working  
side by side in the workplace.
Contents 59Our approach to engagement is multi-pronged. Our Executive Leadership Team conducts regular  
Town Hall meetings to ensure our global employees receive timely business updates. Through our 
“Stay Connected” initiative, leaders from around the world provide video updates to help employees 
remain socially connected to their colleagues while working remotely. This initiative also includes 
monthly virtual meetings with our executives, which allow employees to talk about what is on their 
minds, get to know our leaders through casual conversations, and connect with colleagues from  
across the organization. We also leverage various technology platforms, including Yammer, a social 
networking tool, to promote engagement and collaboration with one another. 
In June 2021, we launched our monthly global employee newsletter— The Insider . Through this 
newsletter, we share interesting stories and highlights from across Insulet to inform and engage 
employees in a consistent and timely manner. The Insider  touches on big-picture developments within 
our global organization, as well as the smaller stories that can equally inspire our internal community.
Benefits
As part of our efforts to contribute to the wellness of our employees and their families, we provide 
the resources and support they need to thrive at work and at home. We offer a comprehensive array 
of global benefits, all of which are designed to help our employees achieve their physical, financial, 
mental, and overall wellbeing goals. Led by our Future of Work guiding principles and philosophy, we 
are working to improve the flexibility of our benefits and offer additional choices for an ever-changing 
workforce. We continually benchmark our annual leave and other benefits to remain competitive in 
each local market. Our engagement surveys also gather employee ideas for future options. Insulet’s 
global core benefit offerings for full-time employees typically include:[13]
• Medical, dental, and vision insurance
• Life and disability insurance 
• Retirement savings plan 
• Paid time off and leave of absence benefits
• Employee stock purchase plan  
with lookback feature• Education assistance 
• Employee assistance program 
• You Make the Difference  
recognition program 
• Virtual fitness, childcare, tutoring,  
and wellness programs
Most employees can view and make changes to benefits online and have access to our Human 
Resources Shared Services function for assistance with benefits. Employees in the U.S. also have 
access to benefit concierge services by means of our Insulet Benefits Service Center. Evolving Our Engagement Surveys 
In 2021, we received feedback from employees through a 
variety of surveys focused on wellness, work/life balance, and 
the Future of Work. In early 2022, we collaborated with a third 
party to launch a new approach to assess and measure employee 
engagement, called “Your Voice.” Instead of conducting an 
engagement survey once per year, we are now performing short 
pulse surveys three to four times per year to receive employee 
feedback on a regular basis. Accordingly, managers can obtain 
feedback from their teams in real time and quickly act to address 
any retention and engagement challenges. Through this approach, 
we plan to increase accountability and drive engagement. 
[13] Benefits and eligibility may vary by country.
People and Communities Contents 60In 2021, Insulet updated existing policies and established some new policies  
both globally and locally to reinforce our flexibility, Future of Work, and inclusivity  
initiatives, including:  
• Global Flexible Working Arrangements:  We know that both remote and in-person 
work arrangements can enable high productivity, depending on the role and the 
individual. As we look at the Future of Work and reaffirm our commitment to 
flexibility, we updated our Global Flexible Working Arrangement Policy to help 
employees and managers design approaches that are reasonable and appropriate. 
These arrangements provide our teams with increased flexibility for work schedules 
and location while allowing the Company to maintain a productive and safe  
work environment. Our flexible work options include hybrid, fully remote, or fully  
in-person and allow employees to choose the flexible working arrangement best  
for them and their role. 
• 2021 Global Year End Closure:  We believe that a healthy work-life balance is 
important and encourage employees to take time off to spend with their friends and 
families. To thank employees for their efforts and to prioritize wellbeing, Insulet’s 
global offices closed from December 25, 2021, through January 3, 2022. This 
annual closure is intended to ensure employees take a well-deserved break during 
the holiday season to rejuvenate and return with vigor for the year ahead.• U.S. Paid Military Leave:  We honor our country’s service members and their families 
in peace, in crises, and in war, and we appreciate the values and unique skills that 
service members bring to the workforce. In alignment with this philosophy, we have 
established a Paid Military Leave program to compensate employees during periods 
of service for up to six months per leave request. We were granted the Above and 
Beyond Award  from Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve, a U.S. Department 
of Defense program which recognizes that our military benefits exceed the legal 
requirements of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.
• U.S. Paid First Responders Leave:  First responders play a critical role in society, 
and they are valued in our workplace. To provide the flexibility needed for these 
employees to take time off during periods of training and certification, we have 
established a Paid First Responder Time Off program in the U.S. that offers up to  
30 days of paid leave per year.
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion  
As we embed diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) into our culture, we are proud to 
embrace the diversity of individual experiences, perspectives, and backgrounds that 
our employees bring to work every day. We believe that the diversity of our employees 
drives our long-term success and bolsters our creative power. With this in mind, we 
continue to focus on strengthening our DEI strategy as we grow internationally.
People and Communities Contents Our DEI Vision
We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive global culture that reflects 
the diversity of the customers we serve and creates an environment where all 
employees feel welcomed, respected, and valued.  “We are on an exciting journey to build a culture that 
celebrates diversity and allows everyone to bring their  
true self to our Insulet community.”
Dan Manea, Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer61DEI Strategy 
To reinforce DEI as a key part of our culture, we have implemented a DEI maturity 
model that sets a clear expectation of how we plan to mature over time and develop 
best-in-class DEI practices. In 2021, we made significant progress in establishing a 
strong DEI foundation to continue our journey forward. In 2022, we plan to develop 
a comprehensive, multi-year strategy to reflect the needs of our key stakeholders, 
identify opportunities for greatest impact, and establish our DEI aspirational goals. 
In 2021, we created a centralized, enterprise-wide approach to DEI to promote 
consistency throughout our global operations. We reshaped our DEI Council, comprised 
of cross-functional leadership, to ensure alignment with our decisions and actions. 
Our DEI activities have focused on four main areas—Attraction, Talent Development, 
Culture, and External Engagement—which reflect our commitment to integrate DEI 
within our business processes. 
We have started to embed DEI into our talent acquisition practices and attract a diverse 
talent pipeline by recruiting candidates with a wide variety of backgrounds. In 2022, 
we intend to integrate DEI into our talent review discussions and plan to host functional 
DEI meetings twice per year with each member of our Executive Leadership Team to 
discuss diversity at Insulet and establish steps to achieve our aspirations. We are also 
reviewing our succession plans and talent pools through a diversity lens to identify 
actions to strengthen our talent management efforts. 
We recognize that our DEI journey is never finished, and we intend to continually seek 
opportunities to effectively champion DEI within our Company and our communities. 
As our DEI strategy matures, we plan to build upon our foundation to develop new 
initiatives that promote thoughtful employee engagement and further embed a culture 
of inclusion into our organization. 
Employee Training on DEI
It is vital that our employees understand and contribute to our DEI culture. In 2021, we 
integrated DEI practices into our talent acquisition process, and all recruiters and Human 
Resource Business Partners completed our inaugural inclusive hiring education course.  Employee Data[14]2020[15]2021
Total number of employees 2,889 3,474
Total number of full-time employees 2,868 3,419
Total number of part-time employees 21 55
Percentage of permanent employees  
by region   100% 100%
Americas 91% 90%
EMEA 9% 9%
APAC 1% 1%
Percentage of temporary employees  
by region[16]100% 100%
Americas 74% 61%
EMEA 22% 35%
APAC 3% 4%The training taught participants to effectively source and interview diverse 
candidates and reduce unconscious bias. We intend to expand these efforts in 2022 
with training for all hiring managers and interviewers, which provides employees 
with relevant information and skills exactly when they need it. In addition, we plan 
to conduct Company-wide mandatory training for all employees and contractors to 
strengthen awareness, set expectations, and reinforce the importance of DEI for  
our operational success.
[14] Employee data includes permanent and temporary workers. Cases where percentages do not add to 100% are due to rounding.
[15] We have restated the 2020 data for total number of employees and types of employees to accurately reflect global data and changes in our reporting. We are continuously improving our data collection and   
 validation processes to enhance the accuracy of our reporting and ensure transparency.
[16] Temporary employees include contingent labor/contractors, co-op employees, interns, and fixed-term contract employees.
People and Communities Contents 62Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data[17]2020[18]2021
Percentage of ethnic diversity in the U.S. 30% 33%
Percentage of women globally[19]47% 47%
Percentage of Gender Diversity by Employee Category Globally[19]
Board of Directors
Female 50% 50%
Male 50% 50%
Executives
Female 27% 27%
Male 73% 73%
Management
Female 33% 39%
Male 67% 61%
Staff
Female 51% 51%
Male 49% 49%
[17] All temporary employees have been excluded from the DEI data. Data reflects our employees as of December 31, 2021. Cases where percentages do not add to 100% are due to rounding.
[18] We have restated the 2020 data to accurately reflect global data and changes in our reporting. We are continuously improving our data collection and validation processes to enhance the accuracy  
 of our reporting and ensure transparency.
[19] Gender data is not collected for Austria, Germany, and Switzerland; therefore, these employees are not included in the percentage calculations.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data[17]2020[18]2021
Percentage of Age Diversity by Employee Category Globally
Board of Directors
Baby Boomers (1946–1964) 44% 40%
Generation X (1965–1980) 56% 60%
Generation Y (1981–1996) 0% 0%
Generation Z (1997 and onwards) 0% 0%
Executives
Baby Boomers (1946–1964) 30% 23%
Generation X (1965–1980) 68% 71%
Generation Y (1981–1996) 3% 6%
Generation Z (1997 and onwards) 0% 0%
Management
Baby Boomers (1946–1964) 11% 14%
Generation X (1965–1980) 60% 54%
Generation Y (1981–1996) 29% 32%
Generation Z (1997 and onwards) 0% 0%
People and Communities Contents 63[20] All temporary employees have been excluded from the DEI data. Data reflects our employees as of December 31, 2021. Cases where percentages do not add to 100% are due to rounding.
[21] We have restated the 2020 data to accurately reflect global data and changes in our reporting. We are continuously improving our data collection and validation processes to enhance the accuracy  
 of our reporting and ensure transparency.
[22] Gender data is not collected for Austria, Germany, and Switzerland; therefore, these employees are not included in the percentage calculations.Employee Resource Groups 
In 2021, over 500 employees, representing over 14% of our full-time employee 
population, demonstrated their passion for enhancing DEI across our Company by 
participating in our seven Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). This past year, we 
expanded our ERG community by adding a Hispanic/Latin ERG, and employees continue 
to bring new ideas for ERGs. Each ERG is overseen by one or more executive sponsors 
and led by employees throughout the Company. All ERGs have clear charters and a 
dedicated budget to support their actions throughout the year. Our ERGs include: 
• African Descent ERG 
• Hispanic/Latin ERG 
• OmniPRIDE ERG 
• Sustainability ERG • Veterans and First  
Responders ERG 
• Women@Insulet ERG 
• Young Professionals ERG 
Our ERGs organized multiple events during 2021 to promote inclusion, provide 
education, and support our employees. ERGs hosted over 25 panels and webinars 
on various topics, including racial challenges in society, workplace opportunities to 
enhance appreciation for DEI, the benefits of electric vehicles, and how to better 
understand and support the LGBTQ+ community to name a few. This was a successful 
year of firsts for our ERGs, and 2021 marked our inaugural celebrations of Black History 
Awareness Month, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Women’s History Month, Earth Month, 
Pride Month, National Coming Out Day, Juneteenth, and Hispanic Heritage Month. Our 
Sustainability ERG also planted a tree at our Acton headquarters, and we sent six young 
professionals to attend the One Young World Summit . In addition, we established new 
policies to support our employees, including a U.S. Paid Military Leave policy. For more 
information, see the section on Benefits .
In 2022, we plan to leverage our global scale, drive greater collaboration and  
inclusion, and deepen our impact across our ERGs. Each ERG has created an action 
plan outlining their goals for 2022, and we continue to pursue opportunities to reach 
even more employees through activities and events hosted by our ERGs.
People and CommunitiesDiversity, Equity, and Inclusion Data[20]2020[21]2021
Staff
Baby Boomers (1946–1964) 9% 6%
Generation X (1965–1980) 33% 27%
Generation Y (1981–1996) 54% 58%
Generation Z (1997 and onwards) 5% 8%
Diversity of New Hires
Female hires globally[22]41% 44%
Ethnically diverse hires in the U.S. 40% 42%
Contents 64[23]  All temporary employees have been excluded from the data. Gender data is not collected for Austria, Germany, and Switzerland; therefore, these employees are not included in the percentage calculations.  
Data reflects our employees as of December 31, 2021.Our Culture of Inclusion and Equity
In support of our commitment to provide equal opportunities in all aspects of our 
workplace, we have developed multiple initiatives to promote an inclusive and 
equitable culture. We monitor our compensation practices to reflect our DEI values.  
We evaluate a variety of factors when reviewing pay equity, including role, geography, 
years of industry-related experience, performance, and tenure. This includes an 
internal review process to evaluate and address discrepancies where appropriate. 
As we build our foundation for improvement, we are exploring opportunities to set 
commitments regarding pay equity. 
Overall, our global gender diversity is strong with a workforce comprised of 53% male 
and 47% female employees, and our U.S. workforce is currently made up of 66% white 
and 33% ethnically diverse individuals. In 2021, 44% of our global hires were female, 
compared to 41% in 2020. In the U.S., the percentage of ethnically diverse hires 
increased from 40% to 42%.
Workplace Health and Safety
The health and safety of our global workforce is a top priority at Insulet, and we work 
to instill a robust culture of safety throughout our organization. Our occupational 
health and safety management system covers all of our employees, contractors, 
and temporary employees. In 2021, we focused on evaluating and improving our 
management system to promote awareness around safe practices and reporting 
procedures. In 2022, we plan to form a cross-functional safety committee that will 
drive continual improvement in our safety processes and programs, going above and 
beyond basic compliance.33%
ethnic diversity amongst employees in the U.S. in 2021
People and Communities Contents Gender Diversity in 2021[23]
Board of Directors
ManagementExecutives
Staff
Female: 50%
Male: 50%Female: 27%
Male: 73%
Female: 51%
Male: 49%Female: 39%
Male: 61%65[24] This includes all employees and contractors under Insulet supervision. We started disclosing TRIR and DART rate for employees and contractors in 2021.Health and Safety Performance 2020 2021
Number of fatalities for employees 0 0
Number of fatalities for contractors 0 0
Number of injuries for employees 10 8
Number of injuries for contractors 0 0
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)  
for employees and contractors[24]– 0.59
Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred (DART) 
rate for employees and contractors[24]– 0.29
Number of reports of work-related  
ill health for employees0 0
Number of reports of work-related  
ill health for contractors0 0
Percentage of workers covered by 
an occupational health and safety 
management system100% 100%
Health and Safety Management Programs
We continue to enhance our health and safety practices to promote the wellbeing 
of our employees and to minimize risks. Our Health and Safety Compliance Manual 
provides employees with the tools needed to identify and report hazards and reduce 
work-related injuries. We provided the manual to managers, along with a calendar of 
health and safety activities, to increase education and awareness. Our programs and 
policies comply with applicable local, regional, and federal laws, including U.S. OSHA 
requirements. In addition to hazard recognition, our workplace health and safety 
programs cover ergonomics, hearing conservation, fall protection, and accident and injury prevention. Furthermore, we expanded our program on contractor safety in 2021 
to support the health and wellbeing of the contractors who work with us on various 
aspects of our operations every day. 
In 2021, we further developed our formal plans to protect our employees’ safety in the 
event of an emergency. Our Emergency Action Plan for our Acton, Massachusetts facility 
outlines processes that our employees must follow during unexpected events. As part 
of this initiative, we trained certain employees to use automated external defibrillators, 
provide first aid, and perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation. We are also planning to 
schedule annual emergency evaluation drills to enhance the safety of our facilities. 
In 2021, we partnered with an external party to conduct a health and safety audit of 
our Acton, Massachusetts operations, including manufacturing, warehouse, quality, 
packaging, and kitting areas. This audit allowed to us identify areas for improvement, 
which we diligently worked to address and rectify. We plan to continue to monitor 
the effectiveness of our safety programs and drive continual improvement into our 
management system and overall safety performance. 
Employee Training and Engagement
The success of our health and safety programs depends on our employees. In 2021, 
we implemented extensive training programs to provide employees with the knowledge 
and resources to uphold our safety standards. Employee participation in safety training 
is mandatory and covers how to recognize hazards and prevent injuries. In 2022, we 
plan to provide monthly trainings that focus on a variety of specific health and safety 
topics. Additionally, workers receive robust training on safety procedures relevant to 
their role, such as lockout/tagout. 
We also depend on proactive engagement and involvement of our employees to 
prevent incidents and injuries. In 2021, we enhanced our efforts to educate employees 
on processes for reporting health and safety incidents. Greater awareness of and 
access to reporting channels resulted in increased reporting in 2021, which provided 
opportunities for us to implement preventive actions based on lessons learned. Looking 
forward, we plan to continue to promote awareness of our reporting procedures to 
accurately capture our safety performance, which will inform future health and safety 
policies, programs, and training. 
People and Communities Contents 66As the pandemic continues to influence our business, we maintain policies to provide 
personal protective equipment and engage our employees in enhancing safety  
and minimizing exposures. For more information, see the section on Responding  
to COVID-19 . 
Community Engagement
We encourage our employees to reflect our values and strengthen the communities we 
serve through volunteering, donating, and participating in community service events. 
We build trust in our Company by partnering with and supporting external organizations 
that share our mission to enable simple, healthy lives for families affected by diabetes. 
Our philanthropic efforts align with our guiding principles and reflect our ongoing 
commitment to positively impact society.
Our charitable donations and collaborations with philanthropic organizations help 
improve quality of life for communities where our customers and employees live and 
work. Our employees donate their time and talents to support communities in need, 
although many community service events were held remotely in 2021 due to the 
pandemic. Among other contributions, our engagements in 2021 included the following:
• Food Donations:  We held a month-long campaign in September to fight against  
food insecurity. Employees across many locations came together physically  
and remotely to help people in need through monetary donations, food donations, 
and volunteering. Employees in Acton and Billerica, Massachusetts supported  
the Operation Nourish program at the Merrimack Valley Food Bank by packing  
300 food bags. Employees in Tijuana, Mexico and San Diego, California also 
organized a fundraiser and food donation collection for the community kitchen 
Desayunador Salesiano "Padre Chava" to donate money and almost one ton of  
non-perishable goods.
Insulet also donated to the World Food Program USA, which provides lifesaving 
meals to more than 109 million of the world’s most vulnerable people in more than 
80 countries. In addition, we donated to the Acton Community Supper and Food 
Pantry in Acton, Massachusetts to alleviate food insecurity in Acton and surrounding 
communities. Employees have previously supported the Food Pantry through 
site-wide food drives at our Acton and Billerica locations. In London, employees 
organized food donations to benefit a local food pantry, which is part of The Trussell 
Trust to Stop UK Hunger. This organization oversees a network of foodbanks that 
provide emergency food and support to people in crisis. • Support for Children and Families:  We were a Title Sponsor of Camp Conrad 
Chinnock’s 13th annual “An Evening ‘Round the Campfire.” The camp provides a 
supportive retreat for more than 2,500 children living with type 1 diabetes to learn 
how to manage their condition and build connections with other kids in the type 1 
diabetes community.
Locally in Acton, Massachusetts, Insulet sponsored the 2021 Discovery Museum 
Speaker Series, where experts presented on matters of importance to local 
communities and webinars were offered free of charge to the public. 
We also donated to Household Goods, a local non-profit that supplies individuals 
and families in need with free furniture and ordinary household items to set up 
their own homes. Employees have previously supported Household Goods by 
volunteering and donating items through site-wide drives at our Acton and Billerica, 
Massachusetts locations.
$250K+ USD
donated to local communities
We also supported our employees and communities in the face of natural disasters.  
In response to these unexpected events, we ensure employees are safe and accounted 
for, and we effectively communicate with customers and health care professionals 
through platforms such as the Diabetes Disaster Response Coalition, which is a 
disaster-response coalition comprised of non-profit organizations, professional 
organizations, and industry partners in the diabetes community. We also ensure our 
customers continue to have access to products when affected by a natural disaster,  
and in 2021, we provided emergency Omnipod supplies to U.S. customers impacted  
by wildfires and Hurricane Ida.
People and Communities Contents SASB Content Index 68
GRI Content Index 70
Appendix
About This Report
We are proud to present our 2021 Sustainability Report, which covers our ESG 
progress and performance from January 1, 2021, to December 31, 2021, unless 
otherwise noted. This report references the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Standards and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Medical 
Equipment and Supplies Standard.
67 Contents 68 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
Affordability and Pricing
HC-MS-240a.1Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all products) to the annual 
increase in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexData unavailable for disclosure
HC-MS-240a.2Description of how price information for each product is disclosed to customers or to 
their agentsAffordability and Accessibility
Product Safety
HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalledWe had one recall for the Omnipod DASH Insulin Management System 
User Guide in 2021. For more information, please see the FDA website ; 
2021 ESG Data Download
HC-MS-250a.2List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical 
Products databaseZero products; 2021 ESG Data Download
HC-MS-250a.3Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User 
Facility Device ExperienceZero fatalities; 2021 ESG Data Download
HC-MS-250a.4Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeZero actions; 2021 ESG Data Download
Ethical Marketing
HC-MS-270a.1Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false 
marketing claimsData unavailable for disclosure
HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products Marketing PracticesSASB Content Index
SASB Medical Equipment and Supplies Sustainability Accounting Standard69 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
Product Design and Lifecycle Management
HC-MS-410a.1Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health 
considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for 
sustainable productsProduct Stewardship
HC-MS-410a.2Total amount of products accepted for takeback and reused, recycled, or donated, 
broken down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) suppliesTakeback Programs ; 2021 ESG Data Download
Supply Chain Management
HC-MS-430a.1Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in 
third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product qualityData unavailable for disclosure
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the distribution chain Responsible Supply Chain Management
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materialsResponsible Supply Chain Management ; We will continue  
to expand our reporting in the future to further explain our 
management approach.
Business Ethics
HC-MS-510a.1Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with 
bribery or corruptionData unavailable for disclosure
HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals Ethics, Compliance, and Anti-Corruption ; Marketing Practices
Activity Metric 
HC-MS-000.A Number of units sold by product category Data unavailable for disclosure70 Appendix Contents GRI Content Index
GRI Standards: General Disclosures 
Disclosure Location or Response
Organizational Profile
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016102-1: Name of the organization Insulet Corporation
102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services About Insulet
102-3: Location of headquarters About Insulet
102-4: Location of operations About Insulet
102-5: Ownership and legal form About Insulet ; 2021 10-K
102-6: Markets served About Insulet
102-7: Scale of the organization About Insulet ; 2021 10-K ; 2021 ESG Data Download
102-8: Information on employees and other workers Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ; 2021 ESG Data Download
102-9: Supply chain Responsible Supply Chain Management
102-10: Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There were no significant changes.
102-11: Precautionary principle or approach Insulet does not formally follow the precautionary principle.
102-12: External initiatives Responsible Supply Chain Management
102-13: Membership of associations About Insulet
Strategy
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker Message from the CEO
102-15: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Message from the CEO ; 2021 10-K71 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
Ethics and Integrity
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016102-16: Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Ethics, Compliance, and Anti-Corruption
102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethics, Compliance, and Anti-Corruption
Governance
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016102-18: Governance structure Our Board of Directors
102-20: Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 
and social topicsESG Governance
102-31: Review of economic, environmental, and social topics ESG Governance
102-32: Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting ESG Governance
Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016102-40: List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement
102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement
102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement
102-44: Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement
Reporting Practices
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016102-45: Entities included in consolidated financial statements 2021 10-K
102-46: Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality
102-47: List of material topics Materiality
102-48: Restatements of informationWe have provided restatements for data where applicable to 
reflect more accurate and comprehensive data. We continue 
to enhance our data collection and validation processes.
102-49: Changes in reporting There were no changes in our material topics.72 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016102-50: Reporting period About This Report
102-51: Date of most recent report May 2021
102-52: Reporting cycle Annual
102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@insulet.com
102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report
102-55: GRI Content Index GRI Content Index73 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
Stakeholder Management
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Stakeholder Engagement
103-2: The management approach and its components Stakeholder Engagement
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Stakeholder Engagement
Governance and Ethics
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryOur Board of Directors ; ESG Governance ; Ethics, Compliance, 
and Anti-Corruption
103-2: The management approach and its components Our Board of Directors ; ESG Governance ; Ethics, Compliance, 
and Anti-Corruption
103-3: Evaluation of the management approachOur Board of Directors ; ESG Governance ; Ethics, Compliance, 
and Anti-Corruption
Compliance and Anti-Corruption
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Ethics, Compliance, and Anti-Corruption
103-2: The management approach and its components Ethics, Compliance, and Anti-Corruption
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Ethics, Compliance, and Anti-Corruption
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2015205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption  
policies and proceduresEthics, Compliance, and Anti-Corruption
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
103-2: The management approach and its components Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Data Privacy and CybersecurityGRI Standards: Topic-Specific Disclosures[25]
[25] Topics are listed per order within report.74 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer  
privacy and losses of customer dataWe continue to enhance our global privacy programs to  
meet or exceed new and expanding regulatory requirements 
for privacy and data protection around the world. Details  
are confidential.
Marketing Practices
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Marketing Practices
103-2: The management approach and its components Marketing Practices
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Marketing Practices
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016GRI 417-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 
service information and labelingWe received zero warning letters in 2021;  
Marketing Practices ; 2021 ESG Data Download
GRI 417-3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning  
marketing communicationsWe received zero warning letters in 2021;  
Marketing Practices ; 2021 ESG Data Download
Human Rights
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Human Rights
103-2: The management approach and its components Human Rights
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Human Rights
Climate Change
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Climate Change and GHG Emissions
103-2: The management approach and its components Climate Change and GHG Emissions
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Climate Change and GHG Emissions
GRI 305: Emissions 2016305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissionsClimate Change and GHG Emissions ; 
2021 ESG Data Download
305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissionsClimate Change and GHG Emissions ; 
2021 ESG Data Download75 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
Energy Management
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Energy Management
103-2: The management approach and its components Energy Management
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Energy Management
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization Energy Management ; 2021 ESG Data Download
Waste Management
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Waste Management
103-2: The management approach and its components Waste Management
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Waste Management
GRI 306: Waste 2020306-1: Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Waste Management
306-2: Management of significant waste-related impacts Waste Management
306-3: Waste generated Waste Management ; 2021 ESG Data Download
Water Management
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Water Management
103-2: The management approach and its components Water Management
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Water Management
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-3: Water withdrawalWater Management ; 2021 ESG Data Download ; Water usage 
data is only inclusive of our Acton, Massachusetts location.
Responsible Supply Chain Management
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Responsible Supply Chain Management
103-2: The management approach and its components Responsible Supply Chain Management76 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Responsible Supply Chain Management
Self-Selected MetricPercentage of our top-spend suppliers that acknowledged that they 
have read and understood our new Supplier Code100%; Responsible Supply Chain Management
Customer Centricity
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Customer Centricity
103-2: The management approach and its components Customer Centricity
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Customer Centricity
Self-Selected Metric Percentage of Omnipod DASH users who would recommend  
the product97%; Customer Centricity
Product Quality and Safety
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Product Quality and Safety
103-2: The management approach and its components Product Quality and Safety
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Product Quality and Safety
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and servicesWe received zero warning letters in 2021;  
2021 ESG Data Download  
Innovation, Research and Development, and Intellectual Property
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryInnovation, Research and Development,  
and Intellectual Property
103-2: The management approach and its components Innovation, Research and Development,  
and Intellectual Property
103-3: Evaluation of the management approachInnovation, Research and Development,  
and Intellectual Property77 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
Product Stewardship
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Product Stewardship ; Takeback Programs
103-2: The management approach and its components Product Stewardship ; Takeback Programs
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Product Stewardship ; Takeback Programs
GRI 306: Waste 2020306-1: Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Product Stewardship ; Takeback Programs
306-2: Management of significant waste-related impacts Product Stewardship ; Takeback Programs
Affordability and Accessibility
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Affordability and Accessibility
103-2: The management approach and its components Affordability and Accessibility
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Affordability and Accessibility
Policy and Advocacy
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Policy and Advocacy
103-2: The management approach and its components Policy and Advocacy
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Policy and Advocacy
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1: Political contributionsIn 2021, Insulet made zero political contributions directly  
or indirectly; 2021 ESG Data Download  
Talent Management and Retention
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Talent Management and Retention
103-2: The management approach and its components Talent Management and Retention
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Talent Management and Retention
GRI 401: Employment 2016401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided  
to temporary or part-time employeesTalent Management and Retention78 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  
assistance programsTalent Management and Retention
404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviewsTalent Management and Retention
Inclusion and Diversity
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
103-2: The management approach and its components Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal  
Opportunity 2016405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ; 2021 ESG Data Download
Workplace Health and Safety
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Workplace Health and Safety
103-2: The management approach and its components Workplace Health and Safety
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Workplace Health and Safety
GRI 403: Occupational  
Health and Safety 2018403-1: Occupational health and safety management system Workplace Health and Safety
403-2: Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigationWorkplace Health and Safety
403-3: Occupational health services Workplace Health and Safety
403-5: Worker training on occupational health and safety Workplace Health and Safety
403-6: Promotion of worker health Talent Management and Retention
403-8: Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management systemWorkplace Health and Safety ; 2021 ESG Data Download79 Appendix Contents Disclosure Location or Response
GRI 403: Occupational  
Health and Safety 2018403-9: Work-related injuries Workplace Health and Safety ; 2021 ESG Data Download
403-10: Work-related ill health Workplace Health and Safety ; 2021 ESG Data Download
Community Engagement
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Community Engagement
103-2: The management approach and its components Community Engagement
103-3: Evaluation of the management approach Community EngagementOur cover image shows Archie H., a customer, playing fetch with his dog.  
Throughout the report, we are proud to use images of real customers.
For more information, please visit: www.insulet.com  and www.omnipod.com .
© 2022 Insulet Corporation. Omnipod, the Omnipod logo, DASH, and PodPals are 
trademarks or registered trademarks of Insulet Corporation. All rights reserved. All other 
trademarks are the property of their respective owners. The use of third-party trademarks 
does not constitute an endorsement or imply a relationship or other affiliation.