Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 1 Insulet is committed to fostering a sustainable business to support the well -being of our customers, 
employees, and communities. We are dedicated to improving the lives of people  with diabetes through 
the use of our Omnipod product platform.  We strive to provide engaging and rewarding work for our 
employees, and to always demonstrate integrity in our actions . We are committed to being a good 
corporate citizen and giving back to the communities in which we live and wo rk. We believe that 
delivering long -term value for our stakeholders is critical to our success.  
 
     
Quality  Accessibility  Employees  Environment  Integrity  
 
Mission and Impact  
 
Our Mission  
We are driven by our  mission to enable our customers to enjoy simplicity, freedom, and healthier lives 
through innovative technology.    
Diabetes is a global epidemic. Insulet’s goal is to make diabetes a smaller and more manageable part of 
people’s lives through our Pod therapy: a simpl e, smart, and discreet way to control insulin. We’re 
changing Podders ’ lives for the better.  
We are achieving this through our industry -leading, customer focused R&D, our groundbreaking 
business model that prioritizes customer access, and our commitment to operational excellence and 
safe, high- quality products.  
 
Our Impact  
Our Podders choose the Omnipod®  Insulin Management System because they trust us to help them 
manage their diabetes so that they can live their lives to the fullest.  Omnipod provides intuitive 
simplicity and ease of use,  freedom and control to live one’s life without restriction,  and discretion to fit 
different lifestyles . We offer a product that meets our customers’ needs, no matter what stage of life 
they are in.  
When a child has diabetes, it is a stressful time  for everyone in the family. C aregiver s want to choose an 
insulin delivery method that both addresses a child’s evolving health needs , while also granting him or 
her the freedom to be a normal kid.  The Omnipod Insulin Management System was created for this very 
reason – to manage diabetes with as few disruptions to daily life as possible  and to provide 
unprecedented simplicity, ease of use, and freedom . 
Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 2 Everything we do is with our customers in mind. Our small, tubeless, waterproof1 Pod delivers insulin all 
day for up to three  days , and replaces the stress and inconvenience of administering up to 14 daily 
injections over that same time period.  Since our Pod is waterproof and attached directly onto the skin, it 
provides high- quality adherence and continuous insulin delivery , without the need to disconnect when 
showering, sw imming, working out, and playing sports.  
One of our P odders, Lexi Bentinganan, was diagnosed with diabetes in 2013  at the age of 8 . She 
is now 1 5 years old and speaks about how Omnipod has hel ped her live a stress -free life:  “I have 
been living with Type 1 diabetes since I was eight years old. I have always loved to swim and 
used to struggle with finding a way to do what I love while also managing my blood glucose 
levels. Now that I use the Omnipod System, I can swim every da y because it is tubeless and 
waterproof. My Omnipod gives me the freedom to do what I love, without the stress of 
managing my blood sugar levels.”  
 
In addition to the waterproof nature of the Pod, it can be attached almost anywhere on the body that an 
individual  can receive an injection, keeping it convenient and out of sight.   
Katie Rokes, a Podder since 2015, speaks about how Omnipod has dissipated the anxiety of 
being diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes as a teenager. “ All that independence I thought I had 
gained as I entered my teenage years was gone in an instant, replaced by my mother’s constant 
worry. With the  help of the Omnipod VIEW ® app, my mom can monitor my insulin levels even 
when I am out on my own. Now, I am  back to babysitting, heading out for pi zza with friends, and 
playing one or two soccer games a day. The best part is that the Pod isn’t even noticeable. I tried 
my first demo Pod at a lake. None of my friends even noticed.”  
 
Product Quality  
We are focused on developing innovative products that  reduce  the work it takes to manage  diabete s. To 
deliver that, we know we must ensure product quality, safety and simplicity for our users.  
Our Quality Policy starts and ends with customer safety. We are dedicated to rigorous compliance with 
all laws and regulations regarding  quality, safety, and performance requirements in every country where 
we offer our products . We set high standards and focus on achieving continuous improvement in the 
effectiveness of our quality processes.  
Our VP of Quality Systems a nd Operations , a position that  reports to the Executive Vice President and 
Chief Operating Office r, is in charge of quality and safety. Ultimate quality management oversight lies 
with our Board of Directors, which receives regular updates on our quality pr ocedures and performance.  
Our quality management system guides our processes. All of our manufacturing facilities are  
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 13485 and U.S. F ood and Drug Administration (FDA)   
CFR820 certified, following the quality management system standards for medical devices. Similarly, we 
require our contract manufacturers to be ISO 13485 and FDA CFR820 certified.   
 
1 The Pod has a waterproof  IP28  rating for up to 25 feet for 60 minutes.  The PDM  is not waterproof.  Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 3 100% ISO 13485 certified  
for all of our manufacturing facilities and 
contract manufacturing facilities  
 
We have received approval of our Quality Management System from the BSI Group London, U.K., an accredited Notified Body for CE Marking and the ISO.    
We proactively conduct r egular product risk assessments using multiple methods, including adherence 
to the ISO 14971 standard for risk management of medical devices. We provide regular employee 
training on product safety: all new employees must complete our  R.I.T.E. (Respect, Integrity, Teamwork, 
and Excellence) Start program that includes a session on quality and regulatory safety requirements, and 
employees receive regular follow -up training based on their roles. There are regular internal and 
external product safety audits, including in 2019 two external (non- regulatory) third -party assessments 
and regulatory audits from Health Canada and ANSM (French National Agency for Medicines and Health 
Products Safety).  
We have set stringent product quality targets that we monitor for conformance and investigate any 
incidents. Our targets include customer service targets for continuity of supply, and targets for 
manufacturing process and released product quality. We monitor performance through m onthly cross -
functional senior leadership mee tings on trends and data i n product performance and safety. If we 
identify a manufacturing defect,  we give  immediate feedback to the facility to correct  the issue . As part 
of our quality management system , we have developed and maintain a dedicated Correct ive and 
Preventive Action (CAPA) program, which states  the incident investigation and corrective action 
procedures in the event of a product safety  complaint or  event.  Further, we are committed to public 
reporting on product issues.  
 
Clinical Trial Standa rds 
We have established a series of policies and procedures that govern the ethics of how we conduct 
clinical trials. We adhere to Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
2, as well as country -specific regulations, for 
designing and conducting clinical studies, and reporting of study results to ensure accuracy and 
credibility of the data. These procedures ensure the rights and confidentiality of trial subjects are 
protected.  We h ave regular discussions with the FDA and other regulatory bodies to align on trial design 
to ensure robust testing of the safety and efficacy of our products. Prior to execution, our protoco ls are 
review ed and approved by the FDA.  
Our Medical Director has resp onsibility for the ethical conduct of our trials. Additionally, we have an 
Independent Review Board (IRB), which independently monitors our ethics and has oversight and 
authority to approve, modify, or stop trials. The IRB serves an important role in prote cting the rights and 
welfare of research subjects. We have a policy to publish trial results as quickly as possible in peer -
reviewed scientific journals and conferences once data is available.  
 
 
2 GCP is an international ethical and scientific quality standard for conducting clinical trials.  Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 4 No Animal Testing  
We do not conduct any testing on animals  or outsource testing on animals,  and we have no plans to do 
so. 
 
Product Accessibility  
 
Insulet operates at the intersection of medical and consumer technology with a focus on reducing the 
burdens and day -to-day complexity for those living with diabetes. Ensuring customers have access to 
our products is a key priority.  
In the U nited States,  our pricing strategy is to encourage the affordability of our product s for those 
people who can benefit from the ir use, while ensuring Insulet is able to continue to reinvest and support 
business operations . In the markets outside of the United States where we currently operate, the 
majority of our customers receive their healthcare funding from the government . In those markets, we 
work within the confines of the established frameworks already developed (tenders, national 
reimbursement for fee- for-service, etc.) and focus on the value proposition of our product line to 
develop pricing levels  which are commensurate with the product benefits and align to the existing 
fram eworks.  
When setting prices, we focus on how we can be fair and affordable to people who can benefit from our 
products. We consider s takeholder (customer, healthcare provider , payor, partner, and advocacy) 
engagement and input, payor a nalysis, predicate te chnologies and value dossier output , as well as 
Health Economics & Outcomes research that quantifies improvements to diabetic population health and 
reduction in costs . In the U nited States , prices are based at a fair market price. Some of the factors that 
dete rmine the fair market price are  costs of goods sold , consumer and payo r marketing surveys, and 
payor and patient value of improvements to health economics outcomes. If a price increase is to occur , 
it typically tracks the Consumer Price In dex (CPI) for Medical Care. The medical care index is one of eight 
major groups in the CPI and is most appropriate for informing price increases for Omnipod since this index tracks medical care commodities such as medicinal drugs, medical equipment, and supplies.  
In addition to product innovation, we consider innovation in identifying new ways to increase product 
accessibility to customers. For example, we worked with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
(CMS) to secure Medicare coverage for Omnipo d. In 2018, CMS issued guidance clarifying that Medicare 
Part D Plan Sponsors may provide coverage for products such as the Omnipod System under the 
Medicare Part D (prescription drug) program. This coverage also provided a direct pathway to secure 
broad M edicaid coverage. This expanded coverage increased the number of locations where an 
Omnipod user can obtain the product from a handful of specialty pharmacies to tens of thousands of retail pharmacy locations. By making this change, many more people have g ained access to Omnipod.   
We also want to help those who may have difficulty affording the Omnipod System. Insulet offers a financial assistance program (FAP) that provides support to U.S. residents who use the Omnipod Insulin 
Management System and meet s pecific eligibility criteria and income guidelines. The FAP covers Podders 
who are uninsured, have insurance that does not cover the Omnipod System or one of its individual components, or cannot afford their insurance out -of-pocket obligations.  
Due to the  Coronavirus pandemic, we expanded our FAP for our current U.S. Podders who have been 
negatively impacted by COVID -19. Upon meeting certain financial criteria, a current Podder may receive Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 5 up to a six -month supply of products (60 Pods) free of charge  throu gh December 31, 2020. The program 
address es the unique healthcare affordability challenges in the  United States.  Current  U.S. customers 
are asked to call the Insulet Customer Care team at 1 (800) 591 -3455 and select Option 2 for assistance.  
 
Employees  
 
We know that our people are the source of our innovation and our success. We strive to attract and 
retain the best talent  with competitive compensation and benefits, opportunities for professional  
growth and development, and a culture that emphasizes fair and equitable treatment.  
 Attracting, retaining, and engaging talent  
Insulet has a noble mission that attracts top talent. We are f ocused on recruiting and motivating 
employees to drive our strength s at the intersection of  medical  and consumer technology. Benefits vary 
by country with full -time employees eligible for benefits including health care, retirement plans, 
maternity/paternity leave, and a flexible work policy.  We are proud of our Employee Stock Purchase  Plan ( ESPP) that is available  to all full -time employees 
and has a participation rate  of over 60%. 
We conduct an annual, anonymous employee survey, supplemented by pulse surveys throughout the 
year , to help measure the overall engagement and satisfaction level of our team.  Our senior leadership 
team regularly assesses engagement, as well as other metrics such as employee turnover, to understand 
and identify potential opportunities for improvement.  
 
 
Great Place To Work –  UK  
2020 Award Recipient
3 
 
 
Training and Development  
We are committed to fostering an environment where our employees can continuously learn and 
develop . Insulet offers programs to address both lea dership and professional skills development. 
Employees undergo  a robust onboarding program that includes education in diabetes, the O mnipod 
suite of product s, business strategy , and other key  functions in the organization.  Employees have access 
to monthly learning programs and virtual and online learning programs.  We offer  several leadership 
development programs to help grow future leaders of our company. We offer several resources for new 
and experienced leaders including a new manager introduction to Insulet, a three -day leadership offsite, 
 
3 www.bestworkplacesawards -uk.co.uk  Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 6 and a new manager six -mon th curriculum that is customized to the unique needs of the relevant 
business function.  
For all full- time employees who attend a n accredited  educational institution, Insulet offers tuition 
reimbursement of up to $5,250 annually for courses taken in pursui t of an undergraduate degree and up 
to $10,000 annually for courses taken in pursuit of a g raduate degree . 
All employees are asked to complete an annual personal development plan, and in 2019 , 90% of 
employees had a development review.  These plans are disc ussed with and supported by their leaders.  
 
Diversity and Inclusion 
Insulet’s success thrives on the diversity of perspective, thought, experience, and background within our 
workforce. We are committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of emplo yment. We provide 
diversity, anti -discrimination , and anti -harassment training that is required for all managers. We expect 
to conduct this training at least annually going forward.  Leaders who complete our three -day leadership 
program receive instruction in subconscious bias and hiring behaviors that support diversity.  
In 2019, we launched a mentoring initiative , which paired high potential employees with a senior leader 
mentor . Additionally, we launched Employee  Resource Groups , a program  designed to support various 
diversity and inclusion efforts in the organizat ion. We have targeted recruitment programs for veterans 
and university students, including those of diverse backgrounds. As part of our commitment, we 
monitor gender pay equality on an annual basis.    
 
Giving Back  
In line with our mission and guiding principles, we serve as a good corporate citizen and seek to enrich 
and strengthen the communities in which we live and work. We do this through a variety of  activities to 
support advocacy and educational activities and making contributions to, and participating in events 
sponsored by, non- profit organizations and registered charities worldwide. We also encourage our 
employees to get involved in their local co mmunities and provide a number of employee engagement 
opportunities that range from the Tour de Cure to a Toys for Tots campaign. I n 2019, we supported over 
30 advocacy organizations  and dozens of charitable and non- profit  organizations . 
 
Environment  
 
We promote sustainability throughout the lifecycle of our products from the design stage, through 
manufacturing processes, to end- of-use recycling. Our Innovation design centers consider processes 
such as using lighter plastics and eliminating certain metals. During manufacturing, we focus on running  
efficient operations that minimize our impact on the environment . In 2019, we began installation of  
solar panels on our Acton, MA manufacturing facility to help reduce our energy costs and carbon 
footprint. In France, we fund collection and recycling programs for our Omnipod devices where they are 
collected, disassembled, and recycled, including testing and re -use of batter ies if they have remaining 
life. In Europe, we provide an option for all markets not run by dist ributors to return products where 
they are then incinerated with energy recovery .  Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 7 Promoting sustainability in our supply chain, our public tenders include ques tions that award points for 
supplier sustainability practices and programs.  
 
Integrity  
 We know the reputation of our company and our products is critical to our success. Insulet  is committed 
to improving the lives of people with diabetes through innovati ve and high- quality products 
manufactured and delivered in the most ethical manner.  
 
Ethics and Compliance  
We are guided by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethi cs
 (Code of Conduct) that applies to all 
directors, officers and employees of the company. All employees are trained on our ethics program 
when they join the company, receive regular training on our policies periodically thereafter, and must 
certify annual  compliance with our Code of Conduct.  
We seek to conduct our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and our Code of 
Conduct mandates that directors, officers, and employees must deal ethically and fairly with the 
company’s suppliers,  competitors, and customers in all business dealings. Among other things, our Code 
of Conduct addresses:  
• Anti-Corruption .  All employees must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), 
the U.K. Bribery Act and all other applicable anti -bribery/anti -corruption and anti -kickback laws 
and regulations. The c ompany’s policies and procedures for compliance with an ti-corruption 
laws are memorialized in our FCPA and Bribery Act Policy.  
• Anti-Harassment & Anti -Discrimination . Insulet is committed to maintaining a respectful 
workplace. We maintain a strict policy prohibiting discrimination and harassment against 
employe es and job applicants based on: veteran status, race, color, religion, sex, sexual 
orientation, gender identity, age, national origin or ancestry, physical or mental disability, genetic information or other consideration protected by law.  
• Political Contributions .  Company funds may not be used for political contributions without the 
approval of the company’s Compliance Officer.  
• Employment Conditions/ Human Rights . The c ompany adheres to all applicable laws and 
regulations regarding labor and employment. We support fundamental human rights and are 
committed to a work environment that is free from human trafficking and slavery. We do not 
allow child or forced labor by the company, and we do not knowingly work with business partners that employ children or forced labor.   
 
We use technology and automated tools to augment our staff capabilities to monitor and report on 
compliance matters. In addition, to help ensure complianc e, we maintain  a whistleblower program. It 
offers anonymous, 24/7 reporting of any ethical concern with information and contact details provided in our Code of Conduct and on our company intranet. Employees may contact the Compliance and 
Ethics Hotline ano nymously at (866) 456- 3746. All reported incidents are investigated until resolved.  
 Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 8 Responsible Marketing 
Insulet  is committed to exchanging information with healthcare providers in an ethical and responsible 
manner , and with the best interests of custome rs always in mind. The Company has established 
mandatory standards that all employees, consultants, contract workers, and temporary staff must 
follow when interacting with healthcare professionals and other customers.   
We maintain  collaborative relationships with healthcare professionals where appropriate in order to 
develop new products; determine appropriate and beneficial uses for products; support medical 
research and other educational, scientific and charitable activities; provide healthcare professionals and the public with information regarding the benefits and risks of Insulet’s  products; and obtain feedback 
and advice about our  products from medical experts. In addition to requiring that all interactions with 
healthcare professionals and other custo mers comply with applicable laws, we seek to ensure that our 
interactions with healthcare professionals consistently meet or exceed industry guidelines.  
Product marketing responsibility lies with both our Regulatory Affairs (for product labeling) and Lega l 
departments. The designated Senior Director of Regulatory Affairs and Senior Director of Legal must review and pre -approve all marketing materials. All expense reimbursements paid to healthcare 
professionals are pre -approved by Insulet’s Compliance depar tment. In addition, all payments to 
healthcare professional s are reviewed retrospectively to ensure compliance with our policies. All 
promotional materials are reviewed and tracked via our web- based review and approval  process.  
All sales and marketing employees receive training on our ethical marketing policies and proc esses upon 
hire, and receive periodic continuing education including an annual training requirement. To ensure 
compliance, we conduct periodic reviews and internal audits to ensure adherence to our policies. Any 
identified issues or incidents are investiga ted and resolved following our CAPA  program .  
All payments made to healthcare professionals are disclosed as required at the U.S. national and state 
level, as well as in compliance with other national reporting requirements where we operate. 
Additionally, we are a Corporate Member of MedTech Europe and follow the MedTech guidelines.  
 
Cybersecurity  
The safety and security of our customers, customer data,  and products is paramount in everything we 
do. Throughout the entire product lifecycle, from design, to m anufacturing to customer  use, Insulet’s 
team of engineers, specialists and partners strive to make the most secure products possible. We have  
established a dedicated, global product security team and coordinated product disclosure program to 
supplement our  robust product security practices. We align our cybersecurity oversight and 
management based on the International Electrotechnical Commission’s (IEC) 27000 series (ISO/IEC 
27000) and to the NIST “Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecuri ty” (NIST CSF).  
In 2019, Insulet extended its ISO 27001:2017 Information Security Certification scope to include its 
global products and services.  Insulet’s leading Omnipod DASH™ Insulin Management Systems is 
accredited with both the ISO 27001 certificati on and the DTSec (Diabetes Technology Society) 
Cybersecurity Standard for Connected Diabetes Device Security certification.  
ISO 27001 is the recognized standard for information security best practices that adheres to the highest 
international data security standards. DTSec leverages ISO/IEC 15408 to provide a framework for risk -
based, multi -stakeholder definition of security requirements .  
The BS EN (British Standard and European Standard) ISO 27001:2017 incorporates the requirements of 
BS ISO 27001:2013 to confirm that Insulet’s information, processes, and controls are safe and secure.  Insulet Sustainability Report -  May 2020 
 9 We have audited compliance and development programs  in place for the devices, systems, and services 
we sell consistent with applicable medical device regulatory requirements. Throughout the lifecycle of 
our medical device s, we continuously monitor for security risks. We assess and test vulnerabilities base d 
on global standards, engage regulators , and communicate appropriate mitigations to key stakeholders.  
All employees receive at least annual training certification on cybersecurity and privacy, with 
supplemental micro -training targeted to employees in spec ific roles.  
 
©2020 Insulet Corporation. Omnipod, Omnipod VIEW and Omnipod DASH are trademarks or registered 
trademarks of  Insulet Corporation. All rights reserved.  
  
   