2018 Report
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Platform 
dentsplysirona.com
Percent of 2018 sales by region*Global footprint of Dentsply Sirona
US: 32%  Eur ope: 41%  R est of World: 27%Dentsply Sirona at a glance
*Non-US GAAP net sales, excluding precious metal content02
Committed to innovation and education
• 
 As the leader in the dental indus
try, it is our 
responsibility to deliver meaningful innovation 
and maintain our customer focus every day.
• 
 T
raining of over 430,000 dental  
professionals annually
• 
 Mor
e than 12,000 courses conducted  
in 99 countries
Our Purpose & Mission
• 
 E
very day, we empower dental professionals all over the world  to provide millions of patients with better 
dental care and make people smile.
• 
 As the leader in the dental indus
try, it is our responsibility to deliver meaningful innovation and maintain 
our customer focus every day.
• 
 W
e are accountable to our customers and each other to keep our promises and to be a trusted partner.
• 
 W
hen we do this, we win as a team, improve the lives of patients, dental professionals and our employees, 
and deliver the results to our shareholders.Global• 
 Sales in o
ver 120 countries
• 
 Infr
astructure in more than 40 countries 
• 
 Mor
e than 15.000 employees globally
• 
 R
evenue $ 4 billion in Sales 
• 
 Member of S&P 500®Dear Reader
Our goal is to improve oral healthcare around the world. 
With our global footprint, we aim to have a positive  
effect both on the communities in which we live and w
ork as well on the larger global community. 
For us, corporate social responsibility refers to the res-ponsibility for our employees, communities, society, and the environment. Our corporate social responsibility platform therefore includes a core focus through cor
-
por
ate philanthropy on initiatives that aim to improve 
oral healthcare. The platform also comprises support for the development, safety, health and wellbeing of  our employees and our communities both locally and globally. Dentsply Sirona is committed to the principles of good governance, a code of ethics for the way in which the company and its employees operate, trans-parency within the marketplace, as well as for reducing our environmental footprint. 
We follow five key principles in the way we operate to create more meaningful product solutions for dentists built around substantial innovation and differentiated  
clinical education. These include approaching our custo-
mers holistically to best meet their needs as individuals,  
taking greater responsibility for our own demand  
creation, ensuring that our innovations are substantial 
and impactful, utilizing our scale across the industry,  
and leading in clinical education. W
e work every day to realize our vision and continuously 
focus on taking steps to improve.  For example, we are 
streamlining our pro
 c
esses for developing new inno-
vations, investing in impressive new education centers, 
and enhancing our digital portfolio of training pro-grams. 
As an executive team, our desire to support our cor-
porate social responsibility platform remains robust, as we believe that continuing to strengthen our corporate 
social responsibility initiatives will help forge long-lasting  
and trustworthy relationships with our customers,  employees, business partners, and shareholders.
There are many ways in which Dentsply Sirona and its employees are working to make a difference and give back. This report shares an overview of the areas in which we are focused and provides examples of how we are achieving our corporate social responsibility goals.
Respectfully yours,
Don Casey
Chief Executive OfficerAs a global leader in delivering innovative dental product solutions, every day we  
empower dental professionals all over the world to provide millions of patients with 
better dental care and make people smile. Given our broad portfolio of products and the depth of talent within the organization, we aspire to push ourselves to a higher 
level, 
focusing our R&D and educational efforts to become a truly transformative company within the dental industry. 
0304
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Platform
Part of Dentsply Sirona’s vision is to improve the  
state of oral health globally. Therefore, the Company focuses on innovation and education for the purpose of achieving better clinical outcomes. Activities, such as those undertaken by Dentsply Sirona Research, engage dental professionals to better understand their needs.  Collaborations with customers help to test innovations and future solutions ensuring that they meet the goal of helping to improve dental care and have a positive effect on oral health. Improving oral health can have a profound impact on economic prosperity, individual confidence, and ultimately a person’s opportunity and overall health.
Dentsply Sirona therefore works with many organiza-
tions and initiatives on local, national, and international levels helping to provide and improve oral health care by donating expertise and resources. In addition to sup-porting oral health initiatives, Dentsply Sirona’s Corpo-rate Social Responsibility Platform includes support for research and education. Whether through its longstan-ding partnership in the Student Competition for Advan-cing Dental Research or through the Dentsply Sirona Academy which last year offered nearly 12,000 clinical As an international company Dentsply Sirona has a responsibility to be a good  
corporate citizen and key contributor to the future of dental care as well as a partner in improving the overall wellbeing of the global community.
education courses around the world, the Company is 
committed to the future of research and education in the dental industry. Dentsply Sirona supports charita-ble initiatives such as the American Dental Association Foundation’s Give Kids a Smile Program, which gives children in need access to oral health care. The Compa-ny regularly supports dental missions to communities lacking access to basic dental care such as a recent Doctors Without Borders trip to the Amazon Rainforest. 
In addition to donating expertise and equipment to 
good causes that align with the goals of Dentsply Siro-
na, there is a commitment to the development, health 
and wellbeing of the employees and the communities 
in which they live and work. The Company continues to work toward reducing its environmental footprint at all manufacturing sites and offices.
When it comes to oral care, at some point everyone is 
a patient. This is a reminder that as a company and an industry leader, Dentsply Sirona has a responsibility to set the standard for delivering the best quality products and services that ultimately benefit patients. The ma-nagement team and Board of Directors firmly support and endorse this platform.
Disease Prevention and Treatment
It is estimated that roughly a fifth of the Mongolian 
population has Hepatitis. Dental procedures are a major pathway for the spread of the disease and this is often due to a lack of proper hygiene procedures. In Septem-ber 2018, Dentsply Sirona joined the German-Mongolian Symposium on Hospital Hygiene in conjunction with the German and Mongolian health ministries and represen-tatives from the World Health Organization in order to discuss sterilization and hygiene techniques to reduce the spread of Hepatitis. Representing Dentsply Sirona, Dr. Nehr-Werner spoke about instrument reprocessing in the dental practice.
Support for organizations such as The Florida Dental 
Association Foundation’s Mission of Mercy (MOM) helps to provide free dental care to those in need without the means to afford it. Dentsply Sirona also supports The European Academy for Pediatric Dentistry’s network of associations, which enable thousands of children to receive health education and dental care.Oral Health  
Improvement Initiatives
Access to Oral Healthcare
Millions of people throughout the United States with di-
sabilities or who are elderly or medically fragile cannot pay for vital dental care. In addition to offering innovati-ve technology for patients with special needs, the Com-pany made two donations to Dental Lifeline Network (DLN) for its Donated Dental Services (DDS) program, which focuses its efforts on this group of patients. The first was part of Every Smile Counts Day on which parti-cipating dental manufacturers and distributors provide a contribution. The second contribution was for DLN’s annual fundraising campaign known as the “Lifeline Heroes Challenge.” Every US dollar raised generates nearly nine dollars in care. Additionally, Dentsply Sirona donates equipment for DLN’s HouseCalls van program which brings care to people who cannot easily travel to dentist’s offices. The company also gives teeth to labs that are donating dentures for DDS cases, of which there are hundreds each year.
To help raise awareness for the special dental care re-
quirements of people with disabilities and those in need of long-term care in Germany, Dentsply Sirona partici-pated in the “Day of Dental Health” on September 25th.
Supporting Clinical Education
Through the Dentsply Sirona Academy, the Clinical Affairs team develops and manages clinical educati-on courses for dental professionals and their teams in communities all over the world. Last year Clinical Affairs expanded its reach, providing training and education to over 430,000 dental professionals in 99 countries through its approximately 12,000 courses that include a cross-section of all dental disciplines, procedures and practice types. In 2018, Dentsply Sirona opened new Education Centers in Charlotte, NC and in Shanghai while another reopened in Bensheim, Germany after a major expansion. Future developments in educational offerings will include enhancements to the digital port-folio to create a more seamless online experience when searching for courses and clinical case studies.
In the complex and competitive world of healthcare, key 
opinion leaders play a decisive role in the development Dentsply Sirona is committed to empowering dental professionals to provide the  
best possible care to their patients. Working to improve the state of oral health  around the world is part of the fabric of the organization. As a market leader, it is  therefore a responsibility to donate time and resources to initiatives that further this aim. These efforts focus on people and programs engaged in the areas of disease  prevention and treatment, improving access to oral health care, education and  student research.1
Dr. Teresa A. Dolan, Vice President and Chief Clinical Officer with Dentsply 
Sirona and her team develop and manage clinical education courses for 
dental professionals and their teams in communities all over the world.
0506
of products and their further development. Since 2006, 
the Company has also invested in the skills of the dental industry’s key opinion leader of tomorrow through its p3 International Program, a program to build the next generation of key opinion leader from private clinics as well as universities. p3 stands for “Profession, Passion, Power” – a one-year intense training program in which participants are given coaching to improve their skills in presenting, dental photography, abstract writing and public speaking. The coaching focuses on improving their ability to frame a topic and capture audience´s attention. Candidates are selected for their personality, professional knowledge, passion for taking on a more public role at speaking events and clinical education trainings, strongly on own initiative as well as for their long-term partnership with Dentsply Sirona. Since 2010 more than 20% of the graduates are involved in interna-tional podium appearances and 80% are strongly active on regional podia.
 
Supporting student research 
Since its inception in 1959, Dentsply Sirona has been a partner in the Student Competition for the Advance-ment of Dental Research and its Application – known as SCADA. Started as a joint venture between the American Dental Association and Dentsply Sirona (then known as DENTSPLY International) in 1959, SCADA has always had three aims:
1. 
 T
o engage students to discover the importance and 
power of dental research 2. 
 T
o provide opportunities for students to advance 
their research skills and careers
3. 
 T
o inspire students to look for new ways to have a 
positive impact on dental care and oral health. 
Each year, pre-doctoral students from around the world 
compete at local, national, and finally global levels. SCADA gives students the opportunity to be excited about dental research and provides a platform that ex-poses them to other students and research from around the world. Locally appointed advisors help the students to get the most out of their SCADA experience by pro-viding guidance and support.
Nearly 60 years after its founding, more than 7,500 
students have participated in this program from 39 countries. Last year, the American Association for Den-tal Research joined Dentsply Sirona to co-sponsor the SCADA program.
In addition to SCADA, Dentsply Sirona runs an annual 
international competition in aesthetic dentistry called the Global Clinical Case Contest (GCCC). Undergradu-ate and graduate students of dentistry with less than two years of clinical practice are eligible to take part by documenting a patient case with photographs and text. National or regional winners respectively winners are then invited to present their cases to an esteemed international panel of judges.
Dentsply Sirona devotes significant resources to creating opportunities for students to compete in dental research believing that such research is essential for developing the next generation of solutions to deliver quality dental care and ultimately to improve oral health worldwide. Since its inception in 1959, Dentsply Sirona has been a partner in the Student Competition for the Advancement of Dental Research and its Application – 
known as SCADA.
Governance
As Dentsply Sirona, the world largest manufacturer 
with the leading position in the market place, includes 
leading brands across consumables, equipment , tech-
nology, and specialty areas. With the broadest clinical education platform and an unparalleled commitment to R&D in dentistry, our mission and vision guide us to continuously aim higher, support our customers and advance patient care around the world. Our promise to customers, partners and employees2
government officials to assure compliance with all laws and regulations. It provides guidance on identifying and mitigating risk in a variety of areas and what to do if a problem is identified. Lastly, the Code underscores our commitment to our employees and the communities in which we live and work around the world. 
Company supervisors and managers are responsible 
for ensuring compliance with the Code by their teams.  All employees are responsible for acquiring sufficient knowledge to recognize potential compliance issues applicable to their duties and for appropriately seeking advice from subject matter experts regarding such issues.Dentsply Sirona has a long history and reputation of 
ethical business practices throughout the global com-munity.  Through frequent and clear communications and interactive training, Dentsply Sirona employees and business partners are informed that illegal or unethical conduct will not be tolerated.  The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) sets forth our guiding values and principles for the conduct of our business that must be followed by everyone who does business on behalf of Dentsply Sirona and establishes the expectations for how we will compete globally, with uncompromising integrity in terms of our interaction with customers, suppliers, Key Opinion Leaders, and 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Guiding PrinciplesOur Purpose & Mission Operating Principles07
We recognize  
there is one customer.01
We will deliver innovation  that is 
substantial  
and supported.03
We will lead in clinical education.04
We will take advantage of scale.0502 We will be responsible  for creating demand  for our products.Every day, we empower dental professionals  
all over the world to provide millions of patients  
with better dental care and make people smile.
Delivering innovative dental product solutions  
to improve oral health worldwide.Our Vision.Together we will build 
a world-class organization for a bright future.08
In addition to The Code, we have seven additional  
topics on which we administer training : 
• 
 Anti-C
orruption & Anti-Bribery
• 
 Export C
ompliance
• 
 C
onfidential Information & Insider Trading
• 
 Anti-
Trust & Competition Law
• 
 Priv
acy & Data Protection
• 
 Mark
eting to Professionals Code of Conduct
• 
 T
hird Party Compliance
Dentsply Sirona supports global efforts to address the 
issues of exploitation, slavery, and human trafficking through our internal policies as well as through direct actions with our business partners in our supply chain.  We expect all of our employees and business partners to fully comply with the California Transparency in Sup-ply Chain Act of 2010 and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015, and the Conflict Minerals provisions of the US Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.
Ethics and Compliance Committee
Dentsply Sirona’s Chief Compliance Officer leads our global ethics and compliance efforts.  Together with the Chief Compliance Officer, a cross-functional Ethics and Compliance Committee promotes a work en -
vironment and policies that uphold the highest ethical s
tandards for all Dentsply Sirona locations and bu-
siness partners.  Under this committee’s charter, our ethics and c
ompliance initiatives illustrate Dentsply 
Sirona’s strong commitment to our Core Values which set behavioral expectations for our employees, busi -
ness partners and industry consultants.  Ultimately, this pr
oactive approach to managing our ethics and 
compliance program helps ensure Dentsply Sirona’s sustainable future.The Code has been distributed to all employees and 
sets forth the general standards relevant to the Com-pany’s business and operations.  In addition, there are numerous policies and procedures which provide more detailed guidance on a variety of topics.  The Company communicates these specific policies to the employees who are particularly affected by them and seeks full compliance in the conduct of the Company’s business.  
Dentsply Sirona’s Marketing to Professional Code of 
Conduct requires all interactions with medical and dental professionals are compliant with applicable laws and regulations, as well as our core values. However, Dentsply Sirona goes beyond strict legal standards and follows the highest ethical standards when interacting with health care professionals and institutions. Health care professionals are also Dentsply Sirona customers and their decisions about which product to buy should be based on the quality and efficacy of the products and the best interests of their patients.  The compa-ny’s Marketing to Professionals Code of Conduct sets standards that ensure employees, or any other party working on behalf of the company, do not unduly in-fluence or even given the perception of impropriety in their interactions with the health care professionals and organizations.  Employees who interact with health care professionals and institutions are required to regularly train on the Marketing to Professionals Code of Con-duct and agree to comply with this policy.  There is also a network of Marketing Compliance Liaisons in place at each Dentsply Sirona business across the globe that are actively engaged in monitoring to ensure the concepts of the Marketing to Professionals Code of Conduct are understood, applied and enforced. Additionally, Dents-ply Sirona is committed to the reporting requirements of the Physicians Payment Sunshine Act (Open Pay-ments) and other transparency laws worldwide.  
Training and Career Development
Career development is important both for the growth 
of the organization and for talent retention. Therefore, Dentsply Sirona invests in training and development programs to bring out the best in its people and to ensure that it will continue to attract top talent across the globe. 
The Dentsply Sirona University is at the core of the 
company’s training and development initiatives. The col-leges within the University aim to develop skills in the areas of leadership excellence, commercial excellence, and operations excellence through a blend of classroom Workplace
In 2018, Dentsply Sirona launched a Global Engagement Survey of its employees  
with the motto “Your voice matters.” The survey questions focused on teamwork, the 
workplace, communication and leadership, and gave all employees the opportunity  
to confidentially share their thoughts and opinions to help shape the future of their company and workplace. Based on this information, action plans were developed  both locally and company-wide on a global level.
and online training for employees. Launched in 2017 as 
part of the Dentsply Sirona University, the College of Leadership Excellence provides programs targeted at employees with the potential to move into bigger and broader leadership roles across the organization. For 2018, the Company continued to expand its program offerings with the College of Leadership Excellence and also began work with the College of Commercial Excel-lence with the goal to introduce expanded programs to support sales force effectiveness in 2019.
Several years ago, Dentsply Sirona’s Senior Vice Presi-
dent and Chief Human Resources Officer and Commu-nications, Maureen MacInnis, launched a pilot program 3
Laurie Reader, Vice President Global Talent Management, developed together with her team the guiding principles for Dentsply Sirona’s talent  
programs enabling participants to grow themselves and move the business forward.0910 
with 10 women from the Global Headquarters in York, 
PA, USA to promote gender diversity among the work-force. Now known as the Women Inspired Network (WIN), the 12-month program has become a hallmark of the company’s commitment to supporting the careers of talented female leaders. The 2018 group included 27 women. Employees who participated speak very highly about the program. According to WIN participant Lindi Barton-Brobst, “WIN gave me the tools (and frankly, courage) to better identify and communicate my perso-nal and professional goals to myself, my family, and my team members.” Looking toward the future, the Com-pany is piloting a WIN Fellowship in the York location to provide additional opportunities for women to connect, grow, develop and support one another. If the pilot is successful it will be expanded to additional offices around the globe.
In 2018, Maureen received Linkage’s Women in Lea-
dership Executive Impact Award in recognition of her dedication to supporting the development of women into leadership positions at Dentsply Sirona. Each year, the company also opens its workplaces to the future workforce in Germany on Girls’ Day, the world’s largest vocational orientation project. On April 26, 2018, at its Bensheim and Hanau locations, the company offered lectures, workshops and specific information on techni-cal apprenticeships and dual study programs to a group of approximately 55 girls between the ages of 10 and 15 
who represent our future.
Beyond internal training initiatives, in many locations, 
Dentsply Sirona provides tuition assistance enabling participating employees to complete their university education, while others have pursued advanced degree programs. The Company has a talent development stra-tegy that takes into account human capital risk assess-ment considering the specific skill requirements at each level of the organization. 
Ensuring that all employees have opportunities for 
development and have programs available is imperative for the growth of any organization.
Equal employment  
opportunity and inclusion
Dentsply Sirona firmly believes that a diverse workforce 
that draws on the talents and skills of people from all backgrounds and cultures helps to contribute to an inclusive society and is good for the future sustainabi-lity of the business. As a business an active strategy of cultural diversity and inclusion informs our efforts at talent recruitment, development, and management. The company remains committed to the principle of equal employment opportunity out of moral and legal obliga-The Moveeffect Platform in Austria enables employees to arrange joint sporting activities with colleagues in Salzburg and Vienna.tion. One example of an ongoing initiative focused on 
promoting inclusion is the Work Experience Program in Japan. The program enables people with disabilities to meet other qualified individuals with disabilities to gain valuable experience in the workplace. Dentsply Sirona recognizes the societal and employment challenges that exist for people with disabilities. As an internatio-nal business with offices in locations around the world, local offices typically reflect the culture of the country in which they operate. With roughly 15,000 employees at locations all around the world, diversity is celebra-ted as part of the company culture. Just within the Bensheim location, there are currently around 2,000 employees representing almost 40 different nations. Employees moving from other locations to Bensheim are assigned an experienced colleague as a mentor to help them become familiar with the new setting. The company supplies vouchers for new employees to take a city tour with small groups of other new employees to encourage networking and connections. 
The commitment to diversity and inclusion includes rec-
ruitment of diverse candidates throughout the business, including the Board of Directors and management, as well as Corporate and operating functions, such as sales, marketing, finance, and information technolo-
gy, in locations around the globe. At the beginning of 
2018, Dentsply Sirona welcomed two new women to its Board of Directors - Betsy D. Holden and Leslie F. Varon.  Employee training and information, available in multiple languages, maintains a focus on global diver-sity and appreciation of regional cultures. When filling an open position every effort continues to be made to include a group of qualified, diverse candidates. Job-specific qualifications, skills, and experience are the basis for recruitment, training, and advancement of employees at all levels. Dentsply Sirona’s policy is to fill positions with the most qualified candidates regardless of race, color, sex, age, national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation, or veteran status, except where there is a bona fide occupational qualification. This policy ap-plies to all decisions about recruitment, hiring, compen-sation, benefits, transfers, promotions, training, social programs, layoffs, and any other conditions of emplo-yment. In line with this policy, Dentsply Sirona offers same and opposite gender domestic partner benefits to employees. Reasonable accommodations are provided to qualified individuals with disabilities. Dentsply Sirona is committed to providing a workplace that is free of di-scrimination, in all aspects of employment. This practice is aligned with the core values of the company as well as being a sound business practice.The Women Inspired Network (WIN) 2018 Group.1112
Health and safety
Dentsply Sirona has a Global Wellness Program with a 
different focus area for each quarter. In 2018, the focus areas were oral health, hydration, physical health and wellness, and in addition awareness. The company-wide program is designed for flexibility enabling local offices to adapt it to best meet the need of their local staff. An example of this came during the second quarter’s focus on hydration. Employees at the York, PA location in the U.S. took part in a challenge called “Wat’r You Drinking” (“What are you drinking”) as a wellness initiative to educate about hydration and to reduce sugary bevera-ge intake. Participants pledged to consume at least 64 ounces of water each day while limiting the consump-tion of soft drinks and other sugary beverages. There was also a charitable element to the 30-day challenge. Water bottles were sold to employees at a reduced price and the proceeds were donated to the non-profit organization “charity: water,” which helps to bring clean water to communities in 26 countries.
In 2018, World Oral Health Day coincided with the 
Dentsply Sirona Wellness Program’s first quarter focus on oral health and used the opportunity to promote awareness of the connection between oral health and general health and wellbeing.  Physical health through sport
Dentsply Sirona sponsored two employees who were raising money and awareness for good causes through sports. Raymond Hovens, a Benelux marketing product specialist for Wellspect in the Benelux region, collected money for kids with bowel problems. Together with his cycling team and countless other sports fanatics, they brought together 300 spinning bikes in the sport center next to the Feyenoord stadium in Rotterdam for three hours of spinning on March 11, 2018 and raised a total of 486,766 euros. The money will be spent on research to find a cure for kids with severe bowel problems. Sabine van Laarhoven, a Customer Services Representative in the Benelux region, participated in the Run for Lyme to honor her friend Susan, who suffers from Lyme disease and underwent stem cell treatment in November. Dents-ply Sirona also sponsored Sabine’s efforts.
Another example of the Company’s support for physical health is through the Moveeffect Platform in Austria. Ac -
cessible via app, PC or tablet, the platform works like an int
ernal company social network about sports. Emplo -
yees use the platform to arrange joint sporting activities fr
om walking, jogging or gardening to tennis or football. 
The activities are documented on the Moveeffect Plat -
form where colleagues can comment and post. 
Employees receive safety training and annual Environ-mental, Health and Safety audits are conducted in each of the manufacturing facilities around the world. In the U.S., audits are also conducted periodically by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the company works with this regulatory body to ensure compliance with all safety standards.
”What’r you drinking“ an initiative to educate about hydration and to reduce sugary beverage intake.Community
As a leader in the dental industry, Dentsply Sirona recognizes the responsibility it  
has as a company in advocating for and investing in efforts that improve oral health worldwide. These efforts start in the local communities surrounding Dentsply Sirona’s offices and extend to supporting initiatives and dental missions to provide access to dental care for vulnerable and underserved communities around the world.
Each year, Dentsply Sirona supports charitable events, 
initiatives and activities locally and that extend to many areas around the globe. Some of these activi -
ties focus on directly supporting the communities in which the C
ompany and its employees are located, 
while others focus on goals inherent to Dentsply Siro -
na’s mission of improving the state of oral healthcare ar
ound the world. The Company also supports initia -tives aimed at improving dental education and access t
o dental care. Dentsply Sirona knows that there is 
a connection between good oral health and general health. Therefore, it aims to promote healthy habits among children in order to reduce the chances of oral diseases and health problems later in life. The follo -
wing examples illustrate some of the many ways that Dentsply Sir
ona and its employees give back.
Dentsply Sirona supports local communities
Donating intraoral sensors
Each year, Dentsply Sirona donates or lends dozens 
of its digital intraoral sensors – Schick 33 – along with software and expert assistance to charitable organiza -
tions across the United States. One such example is its support f
or the American Dental Association Foun -
dation’s Give Kids a Smile program which has helped mor
e than 5.5 million underserved children access free 
oral health services. On February 9, 2018, Dentsply Sirona sent a team to help diagnose the more than 60 children who came through the Give Kids a Smile event at Traviss Technical College in Lakeland, Florida alongside students from the school’s Dental Assisting program and dentists from the local area. Dentsply Sirona also donated a Schick sensor for an auction event to raise money in support of CDA Cares, the California Dental Association’s charitable arm, for the work they do around the State of California. The company also supports local communities  
through events hosted by organizations such as Missi-
on of Mercy which provides free dental care to those 
without the means t
o afford it. The Seattle King Clinic 
also hosts an annual volunteer-driven event where economically disadvantaged patients can receive den -
tal, medical, and vision care. Between 2014 and 2018, the clinic e
vent has helped roughly 20,000 patients. 
Dentsply Sirona is proud to be a part of this event. 
Supporting the Hispanic Dental  
Association HDA
The motivation behind the recent Dentsply Sirona 
collaboration with the Hispanic Dental Association is to pave the way for dental innovation, particularly in disadvantaged communities. The Hispanic Dental Association (HDA) held its Second Annual Global Health and Technology Innovation Forum in 2018 during the Greater New York Dental Meeting. Dentsply Sirona helped to sponsor and organize an innovation contest “Innovation Alley” for dental student social entrepreneurs to pitch their ideas to resolve a patient treatment or product challenge in the dental indust -
ry, as well as for dental industry-related humanitarian pr
ograms.
Dental care for families in Shanghai
Over two days in November, Dentsply Sirona helped support the Shanghai Beautiful Mind Foundation to provide dental treatment for nearly 45 “Caring Heart” children and their families in Shanghai. The Caring Heart program aims to help children suffering from severe illnesses or who have been victims of domestic violence by providing long-term mental and physical care.4
Treating a patient during the Caring Heart charity event in Shanghai.1314
Healthy Eating with Super Chefs
Dentsply Sirona Canada has donated to Super Chefs 
since its inception. The organization was founded by Dr. Greg Chang, a customer of Dentsply Sirona, and teaches children the importance of eating nutritiously and having a balanced, active lifestyle. Every year Super Chefs organizes cooking classes and events for child-ren from all backgrounds in its Surrey, British Columbia home community. This year the organization celebrates its 10th anniversary.
Affordable dental care in Leuven
Together with Wijkgezondheidscentrum De Central vzw in Leuven, Belgium, Dentsply Sirona Implants is working on a project to give back to the community by helping those in need of affordable medical care. De Central al-ready offered a practicing physician in its office and has recently begun offering access to a dentist for low-cost dental care. Dentsply Sirona is supporting the new den-tal practice in several ways including through and initial survey of the practice to understand its needs and what it lacks and then to provide material and equipment to fill those needs. Additionally, the Company is sharing its expertise in working with patients in need of speci-al care, putting Dentsply Sirona’s global experience to work. By organizing direct interaction with De Central, employees also gain valuable experience as to why their work at Dentsply Sirona makes a difference in impro-ving people’s health and lives.
Water Street Health Services
Dentsply Sirona supplies the Water Street Mission in Lancaster, PA with consumables and small equipment for their four operatories on a regular basis and recently donated a treatment center for their health 
services.  Coats for Kids
In time for winter, the Charlotte office donated to the 
2018 Steve’s Coats for Kids drive. Employees led by ex-ample and made Dentsply Sirona their largest corporate donor of coats.
Christmas donation helping children  
with cancer
Dentsply Sirona’s Iberia office is helping to raise money 
for research into cancers affecting children by suppor-ting the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu in Barcelona, Spain. Children from the Garbí d’Esplugues School made “shu-riken” – origami stars – to symbolize the fight against cancer. The Iberia office sent its clients a Christmas letter explaining the action to raise money along with a personalized Shurikan from the students.
Children from the Garbí d’Esplugues School in Spain with their person-
alized Shurikans. 
Jean Crawshaw, Executive Territory Manager at Dentsply Sirona and Dr. Greg Chang of Super Chefs celebrating the 10th anniversary of the organization.Dentsply Sirona and the United Way 
There are many ways in which the Company and its 
employees give back by starting locally. One example is the York Headquarter location’s continuing sup -
port for the United Way of York County. The United W
ay helps to provide financial stability, educational 
programs for kids, training programs for skill develop -
ment, and access to healthcare services for those in need. In early 20
18, the United Way of York County 
recognized Dentsply Sirona for its successful campa -
ign from which employees raised 115,000 USD. More than half of Dentsply Sir
ona’s York campus employees 
participated in fundraising events.
Separating precious metals to care  
for sick children in Germany
For more than 25 years, patients at mainly Rheinhes-
sen-based dentists have donated their precious metal 
cr
owns and bridges, which are no longer needed, to 
the KIKAM e.V. (Community of Interests for Children of the Intensive Care Unit and Pediatric Cardiology Mainz). These donations have raised over 1.8 million 
Support for dental missions
Uganda Brigade 
Dentsply Sirona recently supported Dr. Izchak Barzilay, 
a Canadian Prosthodontist, and his team on a humani-tarian mission to Uganda. Working as prosthodontics specialists with the Bridge to Health Medical and Dental Foundation as well as with the Ugandan NGO, Kihe-fo, the mission delivered critical dental care as well as health and dental education to communities in need. Throughout its two weeks in Uganda, several thousand patients received preventive and denture care.Dr. Barzilay and his team were able to offer same day 
denture fabrication and insertion. They fabricated roug-hly 66 partial and complete dentures during the mission transforming smiles that not only have a physical but also an emotional effect on patients. For 2018, a pilot project was undertaken to place two dental implants in the field in order to help two patients avoid partial edentulism. Thanks to the success of these procedures, there are plans to expand this service on a future missi-on in the summer of 2019.
Dr. Barzilay, first left, and his team during the 2018 Dental Mission to Uganda featuring the Dentsply Sirona flag. euros since 1993. The Dentsply Sirona site in Hanau, 
Germany, has traditionally been responsible for sepa -
rating the metals free-of-charge. The proceeds from these dona
tions have been used to purchase equip -
ment to treat and improve the quality of life of young pa
tients under the care of the clinic.
Dentsply Sirona presenting a check from donations of precious metals 
to the KIKAM e.V.1516
Taiwan voluntary dental service in Laos 
On March 12, 2018 Dentsply Sirona donated dental 
supplies for a mission of the Taiwan dental service team to treat patients in Laos for caries as well as to provide scaling and tooth extraction. In all, the team helped 118 patients ranging in age from 3 to 84-years old. 
Treating Cleft Lip through  
Stichting Sumbing Bibir 
Every year Dentsply Sirona Benelux donates to Stich-
ting Sumbing Bibir. The foundation works in support of knowledge transfer and scientific research of congenital defects in Indonesia, India, Tanzania and other develo-ping countries treating cleft lip patients. Through the organization, a team of Dutch specialists volunteering together with specialists, nurses and oral surgeons in training from the University of Indonesia travels to help treat patients suffering from cleft lip.
Dental care in the Amazon rainforest 
In July 2018, Dentsply Sirona partnered with two projects aimed at improving dental health for people in hard-to-access areas of Brazil. The NGO Doctors Without Borders led a team of approximately 120 volunteers from Brazil. The group included doctors, general and specialist den -
tists, and dental students to areas of the country in which indigenous people of the Amaz
on rainforest live to deli -
ver dental treatment on site. The group performed more than 3,6
78 dental treatments and treated 1,096 patients 
during the 35-day expedition. Dentsply Sirona Endodon -
tics, Restorative, Implants and CAD/CAM products were used. A CEREC SpeedFir
e supplied with energy from a 
generator on a boat produced reached 1,200 degrees to make full-zirconia crowns in the middle of the rainforest.
As part of „Project 32“, an initiative that focuses on 
the importance of all 32 teeth and which is funded by Dentsply Sirona Endodontics, Prof. Manoel Eduardo de 
Lima Machado from Sao Paolo University also joined the team in Brazil to provide endodontic treatments. Using a standardized endodontic protocol with a short learning curve, treatment can be carried out in a single session. The technique’s high benefit to cost ratio means it can be used in public health care services to make endodon -
tic treatment more accessible. Dentsply Sirona donated equipment including mot
ors, files and root canal filling 
materials.
Project 32 is also promoting another initiative with Dr. 
Machado alongside a group of professors, specialists and undergraduate students to treat pain and infection for those most in need. The initiative, called “Christmas without pain,” is being carried out with the support of the Health Department of the City of São João da Barra RJ and in São Paulo with the support of the APCD (Associ -
ação Paulista dos Surgeões Dentist) and the Faculdade de Odont
ologia da APCD (FAOA).Children receiving their dental care kits of the Doctors Without Borders mission to the Amazon rainforest.
CEREC treatment in the Amazon rainforest. Marketplace5
Whether implantology, orthodontics, endodontics or digital dentistry: Dentsply Sirona 
has set new standards in the industry with numerous product launches in 2018 as well. The focus of these was above all on the user-friendliness and simplification of known workflows.
and an X-ray image. The newly developed, cloud-based 
SureSmile Aligner software is used for this, also incor-porating a patient photo. This allows the ideal smile to be created as part of the digital treatment plan. Unlike with conventional concepts, dental practitioners keep control of the treatment process at all times. In the SureSmile Aligner software, practitioners can make changes to the plan and thus adapt the systems to the needs of the individual patient. 
Pre-Clinical Testing
Dentsply Sirona develops and licenses numerous medical devices for use in dental care applications. The company strives to develop innovations that represent significant improvements to the status quo. Whenever possible, Dentsply Sirona uses in vitro or benchtop methods that do not require testing on animals. When studies involving animals are absolutely necessary (e.g. when required by law, regulation or standards) to establish safety, Dentsply Sirona uses facilities that follow the relevant national gui -
delines for the Care and Use of Animals. In the U.S., this f
ollows 21CFR Part 58 and 9CFR Parts 1-3 and global ISO 
10993-2 (Animal Welfare Requirements). These guidelines require that all studies be approved by an Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee and the number of animals are limited to the minimum amount possible to demonstrate safety and efficacy prior to human clinical studies. Within these facilities, animal research monitoring is required to ensure that the animals are treated safely and humanely.Dentsply Sirona employs the best and brightest scien -
tists, engineers, and clinicians in the global dental indus-
try to ensure that it is providing the highest quality ser-vices and products to customers. The broad experience 
and kno
wledge of more than 600 research and develop -
ment employees translates into more than 30 innovative ne
w products created annually. For example, the new 
surgical guide for the chairside digital implant workflow, CEREC Guide 3, supports both the surgical preparation of the implant site as well as the insertion of all Dentsply Sirona implant systems. Production of the CEREC Guide 3 can be done in the practice easily, quickly, and cost efficiently, based on a digital impression made with the CEREC Omnicam and a 3D X-ray image. 
The introduction of Acuris is a major breakthrough in im-  
plant dentistry as the solution redefines fixed retention. 
T
his groundbreaking innovation truly represents the  
best of two worlds: a retention that is removable for the dentis
t but fixed for the patient. 
Dentsply Sirona delivers a wide range of X-ray equipment to the dental professionals. The Company has 2018 up -
dated two of its imaging solutions: the software Sidexis 4 and the softw
are for the extraoral flagship, Orthophos SL. 
These solutions provide a complementary set of func -
tions. The updated features fully meet practical needs such as optimiz
ed performance and improved image 
quality. Significant emphasis is placed on delivering images optimized for the highest diagnostic value at the lowest applied radiation dose.
The most effective treatment can only be achieved if the best diagnostic and planning tools are used. The new SureSmile Aligners from Dentsply Sirona are planned and produced based on a digital impression 
CEREC Guide 3 for fully guided surgery for inserting Dentsply Sirona 
implants.
17
Sidexis 4 V 4.3: The updated features fully meet practical needs such as optimized performance and improved image quality.
18
Clinical Testing
Prior to commercializing innovative products, Dentsply  
Sirona often utilizes data from human clinical tests. 
Dentsply Sir
ona conducts all studies with human sub -
jects in a manner that protects the safety and rights of pa
tients and investigators. In addition to protecting the 
rights of individuals, including confidentiality, Dentsply Sirona complies with regulatory requirements of the countries in which studies are conducted and those in which regulatory submissions take place. Dentsply Sirona’s practice ensures that controls are in place and followed to protect the integrity of the study results.
Dental Amalgam
Dental amalgam, which is composed of a mixture of metals such as silver, mercury, copper, and tin, is conside -
red a safe, affordable, and durable material that has been used f
or over 100 years to restore teeth affected by den -
tal caries (tooth decay). It has a long-established record of saf
ety and effectiveness. While it has been the sub -
ject of questions because of its mercury content, dental amalgam has been s
tudied and reviewed extensively and 
continues to be preferred and used by dental professio -
nals in certain clinical applications. Dentsply Sirona sells numer
ous restorative products that are alternatives to 
amalgam. 
Many organizations, including the American Dental Asso-
ciation, Federation Dentaire Internationale (World Dental 
F
ederation) and the FDA, support the use of dental amal -
gam. The Company has reviewed and evaluated its dental amalgam pr
oduct line. This review included assessment of 
a wide range of factors including the clinical effectiveness of amalgam, published scientific studies regarding mate -
rial safety, the results of the FDA review of dental amal-
gam, as well as environmental and legal considerations. 
Based on an int
ernal assessment and published industry 
research, Dentsply Sirona concludes that dental amalgam continues to be a useful restorative material whose safety and efficacy have been extensively documented. Based on this assessment and the needs of customers, Dentsply Sirona expects to continue to responsibly ma -
nufacture and sell dental amalgam while focusing rese-
arch and development investments on advanced alterna-
tive dental-restorative materials. For example, Dentsply 
Sir
ona’s current range of composite materials that enable 
bulk fill (SDR flow+) and more efficient esthetics (Spec -
tra ST) or the upcoming launch of Surefil One, a self-ad-
hesive composite hybrid with unlimited depth of cure. 
In agr
eement with the Minamata Convention, Dentsply 
Sirona supports the consensus for a phase-down appro -
ach, ratified by the Convention and signed by over 100 c
ountries, to reduce the use of dental amalgams. Dents -
ply Sirona’s marketing efforts and educational activities ar
e designed to educate clinicians about the benefits 
and techniques for using today’s state-of-the-art alter -
native restorative solutions. In addition, Dentsply Sirona c
ontinues to promote the use of the American Dental 
Association’s Best Management Practices for Amalgam Waste to customers who choose to use dental amalgam. Finally, Dentsply Sirona supports a variety of indust -
ry-wide initiatives to promote prevention of oral health disease
, which in turn, reduces the need for restorative 
procedures.
Acuris is based on a cono-
metric concept that uses friction instead of a screw or cement to secure the crown and the cap to the abutment in the final prosthetic part of the implant treatment SureSmile Aligner is powered by Elemetrix, a robust clinically proven digital treatment planning platform. Treatment plans are digitally designed with ABO® graded finish.
Energy Resources 
Dentsply Sirona manufactures products located in 
facilities around the world. The nature of Dentsply 
Sirona’s manufacturing businesses is such that it is not 
a significant consumer of natural resources or energy. In fact, Dentsply Sirona’s global electricity and natural gas consumption costs in total less than 1% of sales.
Although not large consumers of energy, the compa-
ny is committed to improving its ability to control its energy consumption and reduce it. As examples, the 
facility in Ballaigues, Switzerland signed a new electrici-
ty contract for 2018 and 2019 for a green power supply that is guaranteed to come from hydraulic sources. The 
site also has an ongoing project involving sprinkler sys-
tems - so far covering approximately 80 percent of the 
industrial surface which would limit the environmental 
consequences in case of a fire. 
The facility in Bensheim, Germany uses 168 photovoltaic panels (240 m
2) implemented on the roof delivering 
294 kWp. The chillers of the production machines were 
supplemented with a free cooling system. The lighting of 
the parking lots and the advertising lighting has been ex -
tended with a time and presence control to minimize the light pollution of the en
vironment. The air-handling units 
were equipped with an optimized time control system. 
Since 2011, Dentsply Sirona has worked with Schneider Electric, a partner for all supply side energy issues in 
the US and EU, to strategically manage procurement of 
our energy requirements across those geographies. In 2017, Dentsply Sirona expanded the reach of this part-nership into Brazil and Japan. This represents over 95% 
of the Company’s energy usage, globally. 
Dentsply Sirona tracks baseline energy impact based 
on metric tons of CO
2 (type 1 and type 2) to gain a view 
of Dentsply Sirona’s global energy consumption and 
related greenhouse gas emissions. This dashboard pro-
vides a view of our cost efficiency and greenhouse gas emission opportunities. Dentsply Sirona have continued to enhance an understanding of the company’s Type 3 
CO
2 impact in both North America and Europe, with 
Brazil and the APAC region to follow in the near future.
Hazardous Waste
Dentsply Sirona’s manufacturing facilities do not pro-
duce large amounts of hazardous wastes and emissi-ons, based on the type of manufactured materials and the size of our manufacturing footprint. Since 2017 it is 
expanding to reporting on a global basis, encompassing 
permits worldwide. Six of the total manufacturing faci-lities have hazardous waste permits, 18 manufacturing 
facilities have air emission permits or authorizations, 
four of the manufacturing facilities are required to have landfill disposal licenses or permits, and Dentsply Sirona 
owns five water (emission/storm/waste) permits. The 
company strives to ensure that its manufacturing facili-ties are in compliance with those licenses and permits. Each manufacturing facility tracks and reports its hazar-
dous waste and emissions on an annual basis.Environment
Local Teams Go Green 
Employees are motivated to reduce Dentsply Sirona’s 
negative environmental impact by focusing on ways to reduce energy consumption, increase recycling, elimi-nate waste, and implement other “green” ideas within local facilities. Through the partnership with Schneider Electric, local teams have access to statistical data to support their investment decisions related to the re-duction of energy consumption with measurable results in both costs and usage. Several facilities have already begun developing environmental impact reduction strategies. 
The Bensheim, Germany location has received it’s ISO 
14001 certification and follows the worldwide recog-nized guideline for health and safety measures (NLF/ILO-OSH 2001). This certification is provided by the International Organization for Standardization and is a systematic and process-driven approach to controlling aspects of our business that have a significant impact on the environment. The facility at Ballaigues is now also certified under ISO 14001. In August of 2018, Swiss authorities approved an environmental commitment from Dentsply Sirona to increase energy efficiency by 10 percent over 10 years. 
The NLF/ILO-OSH 2001 guidelines have been de-
veloped by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and are a set of safety measures put in place to reduce the hazards and risks in the workplace. Their goal is to provide a safe and risk-free environment for employees to thrive.
In addition, Dentsply Sirona committed to ambitious 
energy saving targets for 2018 at its Bensheim location by signing an environmental pact with nine other em-ployers in the region. The agreement will lead to electri-city savings of approximately 204,000 kWh/year and a reduction of CO
2 emissions by approximately 90 t/year. 
With the commitments to LEEN (Learning Energy Effi-ciency Networks) and the EMAS (EU Eco Audit) as well as membership in the Hessian Environmental Alliance, Dentsply Sirona is showing that it takes its responsibili-ty towards the environment seriously. The participation in the LEEN network has been extended beyond the original planned project period by a further 4 years.6
Our facility in Ballaigues, Switzerland uses 572 photovoltaic panels  
(930 m2) implemented on the roof delivering 151.6 kWp.1920
Selective Examples of Past Green Initiatives
•  US-based f acility converted its lighting to 
more efficient LED estimated to save 835 
metric tons of CO2
•  German-based f acility signed an environ-
mental agreement in which the participating companies agree to a joint CO
2 savings target 
of six percent by 2018
• 
 German-based f
acility installed new gas hea-
ter system to reduce consumption
• 
 Br
azil-based facility replaced diesel with LBG 
as energy source, reducing CO and CO2 • 
 S
wedish and Belgium-based facilities im-
plemented a strategy to improve car fleet efficiency to reduce CO
2 emissions 
• 
 Netherlands-based f
acility replaced gasoline 
powered cars with electrical cars 
• 
 German-based f
acility reduced natural gas 
consumption by optimizing production and maintenance scheduling 
• 
 S
wedish-based facility reduced the use and 
leakage of Sulfur hexafluoride gas (SF6) which resulted in a reduced CO
2 footprintCarbon 
Emissions
CO 2•  German-based f acility implemented a heat 
recovery unit 
• 
 Man
y facilities have completed the conversion 
of their outdoor lighting to LED
• 
 German-based f
acility converted to intelligent 
air valves and control to optimize compressed 
air generation to reduce energy consumption
• 
 A S
witzerland-based facility installed Smart 
Sensors, which send automatic updates on a series of energy consumption indicators to a newly created, dedicated website. The generated data helps make decisions to lower energy consumption
• 
 US-based f
acility converted to high efficiency 
systems 
• 
 US-based f
acility installed energy efficient 
infrared heaters in dock area •  Netherlands-based f acility installed solar 
energy panels 
• 
 S
wedish-based facility uses renewable  
resources to provide electrical power 
• 
 US-based f
acility initiated project to use  
daylight when/where possible to reduce  electrical energy 
• 
 Br
azil-based facility manages a recycle  
materials program targeted to reduce  environmental waste 
• 
 R
enewable energy sources are being  
used in Swedish, German, Dutch and  Swiss facilities through wind and solar  power 
• 
 A S
witzerland-based facility eliminated its  
remaining fuel heated facilities by using  existing heating sourcesEnergy  
Conservation
•  A dditional facilities installed evapo-concen-
trators to limit the treatment needs of water 
volume for toxic wastes 
• 
 US and German-based f
acilities converted  
to a closed loop water-cooling system,  resulting in significant water consumption savings
• 
 Br
azil-based facility implemented system for 
recycling water used for cooling system 
• 
 Netherlands-based f
acility refurbished heat 
pump to minimize water used for cooling system • 
  S wedish-based facility reduced water 
consumption through the installation of a tumbling system 
• 
 Belgium-based f
acility uses less water since 
installing sensor faucets 
• 
 A S
witzerland-based facility began using a 
cooling machine for cool injection presses  to minimize water consumption and im-plemented a control process for checking wastewater pipes to more efficiently repair damaged onesWater  
Usage•  S wedish-based facility is investing to change 
to a production process with a smaller  
environmental footprint, including reducing its use of chemicals
• 
 S
witzerland-based facility introduced a 
5-times recycling cycle for the plastic inserts that are part of the manufacturing process
• 
 Man
y facilities around the globe reuse or 
recycle a majority of raw materials and  packaging materials to reduce pollution  and carbon footprint. In Switzerland, for  example, the recycling rate is 79%
• 
 US-based f
acility implemented CNC grinding, 
reducing acid electrolyte solution waste Hazardous 
Waste•  US-based f acility eliminated use of all  
white bliss boxes by converting to  
environmentally friendly unbleached box packaging 
• 
 US-based f
acility using green custodial  
supplies where suitable 
• 
 S
wedish-based facility improved chemical 
handling for surface treatment, leading to  less waste 
• 
 A S
witzerland-based facility replaced a 
chemical product that was toxic to humans and the environment while also optimizing its galvanoplasty process to cut gold cyanide consumption in halfDentsply Sirona does not use corporate funds for politi-
cal spending or lobbying on political issues, and has not done so for at least the last six years, nor do we have a political action committee. As stated in our Code of Bu-siness Conduct and Ethics, the Company’s established policy is that no company funds or other company as-sets may be contributed for political purposes, regard-less of whether in the U.S. or outside the U.S., without the prior review by the Company’s General Counsel, and approval by the Board of Directors.
In the U.S., Dentsply Sirona is a member of various 
dental trade associations, such as the Dental Trade Alliance (DTA) which is an association of companies Political Spending7
that provide dental equipment, supplies, materials and services to dentists and other oral care professionals. The DTA’s core purpose is to enhance member success and increase dental demand. From time to time, DTA may engage in lobbying regarding legislation that is of interest to its members.
With headquarters in York, Pennsylvania, Dentsply Siro-
na is also a member of the Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry. The Chamber is the commonwe-alth’s largest broad-based business advocacy organiz-ation with a mission to improve Pennsylvania’s business climate and increase the competitive advantage for its members. 
Dentsply Sirona delivers innovative product solutions 
that improve oral health worldwide. Its business is inhe-rently focused on people. The company and its emplo-yees embrace the responsibility of delivering the best quality products and services that help dental professi-onals care for millions of patients every day, improving lives through better oral health and better smiles. 
Recognizing its role as a leader within the dental indus-
try, Dentsply Sirona goes beyond the principles of good 
go
vernance, transparency within the marketplace, and a 
code of ethics that guides the way in which it operates. Conclusion8
Therefore, it developed a Corporate Social Responsibili-
ty Platform commensurate with its global footprint that 
includes c
ommitments to the development, safety, health 
and wellbeing of its employees, its local communities and society at large, as well to reducing its environmen -
tal impact. The 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility R
eport provides a selection of examples illustrating how 
Dentsply Sirona uses its resources to meet these com -
mitments. The company and its employees are proud to support the eff
orts described and will continue to look 
for additional opportunities that correspond to their values and the principles outlined in this report.
21