TAKING  ACTION FOR A BRIGHTER WORLD SUSTAI NABILITY REPORT | CONTENTOUR BUSINESS HEALTHY PLANET HEALTHY SMILES HEALTHY BUSINESS APPENDIX 77OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 7Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessOur Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 3LETTER FROM THE CEOI am delighted to have been appointed CEO of Dentsply Sirona in  September 2022, taking over from interim CEO John Groetelaars who continues to serve on the Board.
I have joined a committed team that works passionately every day to empower dental professionals around the world to provide best-in-class oral health care and create healthy smiles for their patients.
More than 100 years of experience in innovation and creativity fuel the Company’s capability to deliver safe and efficient products and solutions for dental professionals and patients.
Dentsply Sirona’s heritage also supports our strong commitment towards operational excellence and our desire to create a sustainable future for the dental industry, alongside improving oral health globally for future generations.
Earlier this year, the team conducted a global study which found  that 70% of dentists believe the industry is lagging when it comes to sustainability performance, and only half of those surveyed feel comfortable talking about sustainability to either their patients or suppliers.
The sustainability actions we take at Dentsply Sirona start internally but extend beyond our own operations.
I am encouraged by the strong strategic partnerships that Dentsply Sirona has established to accelerate industry change, and we are taking concrete actions to promote more sustainable dental and oral health practices, such as providing sustainability-related educational and practical tools to dental professionals.
OUR PEOPLE   COME FIRST  The health, safety, and wellbeing of all those with whom we work  is always of the upmost importance to us.
For Dentsply Sirona,  this means our employees, customers, partners, suppliers, and communities in which we operate, as well as the end patients that benefit from our products.
Last year, once again, emphasized the responsibilities businesses have towards society as the world continued to navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, macroeconomic pressures including inflation, and terrible geopolitical situations such as the invasion of Ukraine in February 2022.
This year the Company expanded the responsibilities of the  Corporate Crisis Management Team, established in 2020 to respond to the pandemic, to provide ongoing support and assistance to all our employees impacted by the war in Ukraine.
I am proud of how our entire organization has responded to support our colleagues and their families affected by the war, and their safety remains a priority for Dentsply Sirona.THIS REPORT   AND OUR WORK   This is the second year that the Company is reporting on its  sustainability strategy, “ Beyond — Taking Action for A Brighter  World ”, which outlines our sustainability strategy and program, and  discloses our sustainability performance in 2021.Our Purpose   Video 1  Dentsply Sirona’s Global Dental Industry Sustainability Study surveyed 1,325  d entists across 7 countries in 2  In line with the data reported on 31st December 2021  The Company made strong progress against many of our short-term  sustainability goals within our strategic pillars, including reducing the Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions intensity and water withdrawal intensity 2, and we plan to establish medium term targets  as our strategy continues to evolve.
As an Executive Team, we are working to ensure that Dentsply Sirona  is a responsible Company that creates trusted partnerships and fosters an inclusive culture.
Importantly, we are committed to being transparent with our stakeholders.
On May 10, 2022, in a Form 12b-25 filing with the US Securities   and Exchange Commission, the Company announced that  the Company’s Board of Directors was conducting an internal investigation regarding certain financial reporting matters.
On November 1, 2022, the Audit and Finance committee, alongside independent counsel and advisors, completed this thorough process.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 4LETTER FROM THE CEOInformation about the Committee’s investigation findings and  conclusions can be found in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on 1st November 2022.
The Company has already taken decisive and meaningful steps to address the findings and is implementing enhancements and remedial measures to ensure these issues are thoroughly resolved.
Our management team is committed to accountability, operational rigor and integrity, and we move forward as an organization to deliver long-term growth and value creation.
Earlier this year, the team also welcomed the appointment of Cherée  Johnson as the new Chair of the ESG Committee.
She brings a wealth of experience to the role, as well as determination to deliver the best work for the Company, and we have full confidence in her ability to lead our sustainability strategy.
I am inspired by the collective action taken by everyone we work  with to embed sustainable practices in our Company and across the sector, and I look forward to seeing our future achievements unfold.LETTER   FROM THE ESG  COMMITTEE LEADERSHIP  Last year, Dentsply Sirona announced its formal sustainability  strategy that set out our key ambitions across three pillars of action: Healthy Planet, Healthy Smiles and Healthy Business.
Each pillar was allocated its own targets and we are pleased to share  that we respected our commitments and have made solid progress  against each.
Last year we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity and water withdrawal intensity; delivered innovative solutions, products and trainings to help people smile; increased the representation of women and people of color among our senior workforce; assessed our gender pay parity across all professional managerial levels; as well as expanded training opportunities for employees and customers to meet their professional development goals and deliver high quality oral health care.
Since the publication of the strategy, we have continued to work  closely with our stakeholders to further understand what they consider the most material sustainability topics impacting our business.
These insights inform our plan to deliver our sustainability targets and programs.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY  JOURNEY    We are on a journey to transform the sustainable practices of our  business.
We have integrated the assessment of ESG risks and opportunities into our enterprise risk management process and will conduct further analysis of ESG-related topics The ESG committee   is comprised of experts and functional heads across the business   to ensure successful oversight of our key initiatives (more information on p.12 ).
We meet monthly to review the progress we  have made against our sustainability strategy and implement any necessary updates.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 5We are also in the process of finalizing our sustainability executional  roadmap which will set out the actions we will take to ensure we meet the environmental targets we have already set, as well as inform our future goals.
As part of this, we are working closely with independent partners to conduct a climate-related risk assessment.
These auditing exercises will help us identify priority projects,  and, as a first step, we are assessing all current sites for risks and opportunities.
This includes site-specific energy, waste, and water use optimization assessments, in line with the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) disclosure guidelines.
Part of this process also includes understanding our Scope 3 GHG  emissions by evaluating the carbon impact of our value chain.
We shared this commitment with our suppliers earlier this year at the annual Global Suppliers Forum, and plan to start reporting these metrics soon.
Dentistry is on its own sustainability journey, and we are proud  of the many ways in which we contribute to driving sector wide change.
The work we have delivered as part of our longstanding partnership with the FDI World Dental Federation is particularly powerful.
Together we recently released guidance on how to improve sustainable practices through reduction, reuse and recycling throughout the dental and oral health care value chain, and we believe it will have a significant impact and serve as a useful tool for all dental practitioners and patients (more information on p.24 ).
We have also continued our partnership with Smile Train to help advance the delivery of, and access to, cleft care treatment for those that need it most.
In the last year, we have already supported life-changing surgeries for as many as 730 children, and we are greatly encouraged as the program continues to grow.LOOKING TOWARDS  THE FUTURE     It was a great pleasure to become part of the Dentsply Sirona  team earlier this year and I am excited to have been given this new opportunity to lead the ESG Committee.
I fully believe in the foundations of our sustainability strategy,  thoughtfully developed to improve oral health around the world   and protect the environment, while ensuring Dentsply Sirona acts   as a trustworthy corporate citizen and fosters a diverse, equitable and inclusive environment within our workplace and society.
We have more to do, but the programs and initiatives already in place mean we are in lock step with our sustainability goals, and I look forward to accelerating our pace to deliver the ambitions of our sustainability strategy.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessOur vision and mission is to transform  dentistry and improve oral health globally, and we do this every day by proudly creating innovative solutions for healthy smiles.
Our sustainability strategy is fundamental   to this mission.
We call that journey BEYOND: Taking action  for a brighter world, and it is the bedrock   that informs our sustainability actions.
It sets out the role Dentsply Sirona plays as a responsible company towards our society   and planet, as well as how we integrate sustainable practices and lifecycle thinking across our operations.
We have built our sustainability strategy around three pillars of action —  Healthy Planet, Healthy Smiles and  Healthy Business — and these reflect  how we engage with our employees, customers, partners and communities.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY VISION We transform   dentistry to improve   oral health globally.
MISSION Every day, we empower  millions of customers  by proudly creating  innovative solutions   for healthy smiles.
HEALTHY PLANET HEALTHY BUSINESS HEALTHY SMILES Reach Net Zero   carbon emissions   (Scopes 1-3) by Achieve   25 million   smiles by  Strive to achieve global gender parity   by 2025Work to achieve global gender pay parity by          Achieve top decile   injury and illness   prevention/   avoidance rate   by 2025Combined Scope 1  and 2 GHG emission  intensity reduction ≥  15% by 2025Total waste   reduction ≥ 15%   by 2025Reduction of water  withdrawal intensity for manufacturing /   warehouse operations   ≥ 15% by BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessWe know our duty of care includes our  people, customers, patients and the planet.
BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessOUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH  In 2020, we set out four ambitious flagship sustainability goals that  reflect the Company’s direction and support the realization of our vision to transform dentistry and improve oral health globally.
We are encouraged by the solid progress we are making against our goals.In 2022, we conducted our first materiality assessment to identify the sustainability topics most important to Dentsply Sirona’s stakeholders and inform the Company’s sustainability strategy and reporting (see p.13 for more information).
This  has been a crucial tool used to inform the sustainability executional roadmap that we are in the process of finalizing.
This roadmap will showcase the OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS  BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessAchieve 25 million   smiles by 2025Reach Net Zero  carbon emissions (Scopes 1-3)   by 2050Work to achieve global gender pay parity by 2025Strive to   achieve global gender parity   by 25 MHEALTHY  PLANET Achieve top decile  injury and illness prevention/avoidance rate by HEALTHY  SMILESHEALTHY BUSINESS key environmental actions we  are already taking and set out additional business activities we will take going forward.
It will also be an influential tool as we start to set new environmental targets that look beyond 2025.
In the past year, we have  expanded our leading industry partnerships and worked closely with our stakeholders to advance environmental and oral health initiatives.
For example, we have continued to work in partnership with the FDI World Dental Federation to establish a first of its kind sustainability framework for the entire dentistry industry.
We have also continued to create innovative product solutions and on-the-ground community initiatives – both focusing on increasing access to high quality oral care.
We have also maintained our commitment to increasing diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) within our sector, which starts with creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace, and we have been actively communicating with all our stakeholders about the importance of embedding sustainability across the industry.
Through our ongoing communication assets, such as newsletters, videos, trainings and more, we are constantly encouraging everyone we work with, from employees to dental practitioners, to take sustainable actions every day.
As a result of the hard work throughout the business, we have already met some of our pillar specific sustainability targets.
We have achieved our initial short-term target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission intensity and water withdrawal intensity by 15% by 2025, and we are in the process of conducting a global audit to inform new intermediate goals.
These will be put in place to ensure we meet our Net Zero target by 2050.
We are proud of the progress we have made in the last year and are confident in our continued ability to progress our sustainability plans and adapt to a rapidly evolving global environment.90% of our Board is independent  38% of our Executive  Management Team are women and/or people of color 75% of Board committees  are chaired by women 55% of Board members are female and/or people of color, with average tenure of five years   HEALTHY  BUSINESS  HEALTHY SMILES  HEALTHY  PLANET 4 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS IN Reached our short-term target of reducing  water withdrawal intensity by 15% by 2025.
In 2021 water withdrawal intensity decreased by 26% from the 2019 baseline measurement (2021 vs 2020 water  withdrawal intensity: 22% decrease)  Achieved our short-term target of reducing  Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 15% by 2025.
In 2021, total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity decreased by 17% from the 2019 baseline measurement (2021 vs 2020 emissions intensity: 14% decrease) Actions taken   to achieve more than   5.8 MILLION   smiles in 20215Conducted   7,687  clinical educ ation and  training cou rses across    80 countries, a 5%  increase compa red with  2020  Trained  281,134   dental professionals Global gender    parity was     43%R&D investment   increased by   39% Total of      6   Employee   Resource Groups6> US$MILLION provided as cash   and in-kind donations   to philanthropic  community   initiatives 3  Healthy Planet and Healthy Smiles figures as of December 2021.
Healthy Business figures as of August 4  We compared our 2021 figures against our baseline measurement taken in 2019 as the COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted the productivity of our operations    5  This figure is comprised of our inclusion, empowerment and benefit programs offered to employees, Clinical Education programs, equipment we provide that  res tores smiles in a single treatment (for example, CEREC), educational events (for example, DS World), and our community oral healthcare delivery initiatives and  donations.
6  Total ERGs in 2021: 6.
Total ERGs in 2022: 7  As of October BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessOUR APPROACH TO MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Dentsply Sirona’s commitment  to our sustainability strategy begins at the top and is embedded throughout our Company.
The Corporate Governance and Nominating  Committee of the Board oversees the management of risks related to our environmental, social and governance practices, including identifying relevant ESG trends and issues, and overseeing the development of metrics related to ESG performance.
The Human Resources Committee is responsible for the management of risks related to our social practices, and the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board oversees and assesses   risks related to cyber security and data privacy matters.
Finally, the Science and Technology Committee is responsible for reviewing the Company’s R&D activities, initiatives, and investments.
All these Committees report to the Board, and their responsibilities are firmly in line with the business’ sustainability strategy.THE BOARD OF  DIRECTORS We are pleased to welcome Cherée Johnson as the new Chair of  the ESG Committee.
Alongside her role as Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel & Secretary she will be leading our BEYOND sustainability program, leveraging her extensive ESG experience from her previous roles.
As Chair of the ESG Committee, she will report to the Corporate  Governance and Nominating Committee.
Together with the Human Resources Committee concerning social practices, these committees are responsible for overseeing all sustainability-related implementation plans.The ESG Committee is composed of executive leadership and multi-disciplinary, management level subject-matter experts from Supply Chain, Operations, Employee Health and Safety (“EHS”), Legal, Human Resources, Investor Relations, and Communications.
The ESG Committee meets on a monthly basis and updates the  Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee on pressing sustainability topics and issues, activities and performance, so it ensures active Board and Committee level oversight of the Company’s management of sustainability-related risks.
OUR ESG COMMITTEEThe Board of Directors (“the Board”) has oversight of the Company’s sustainability strategy.
Our ESG Committee is responsible for developing and overseeing the implementation of the company-wide sustainability strategy, as well as ensuring our business processes and practices, including decision-making, take ESG factors into account.
At the time of the publication of this report, the ESG Committee membership includes 67% women, and 17% people of color.
ESG COMMITTEECorporate  Governance  and  Nominating  Committee Audit and   Finance  Committee BOARD   OF  DIRECTORS Human   Resources  Committee Science and  Technology  Committee  CHIEF SUPPLY   CHAIN OFFICERCHIEF HUMAN  RESOURCES  OFFICERVICE PRESIDENT   CORPORATE  COMMUNICATIONS Andrew Robinson Marion Par-WeixlbergerSENIOR VICE PRESIDENT   NORTH AMERICA   RCO AND CHIEF DIGITAL OFFICER Andrea DaleyVICE PRESIDENT  INVESTOR  RELATIONS Lisa Yankie Tony Johnson Cherée JohnsonSENIOR VICE PRESIDENT GENERAL  COUNSEL & CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER  CHAIR SUSTAINABILITY BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessWORKING CLOSELY   WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS  We collaborate with all our stakeholders because only by working together  will we be able to drive meaningful and long-lasting sector-wide change and achieve our vision to improve oral health globally.
MATERIALITY  ASSESSMENT   In late 2021 we conducted our first materiality assessment to  gain an understanding of how our key internal and external stakeholders – including our executives, employees, investors, customers, suppliers, and community groups – perceive and rank which ESG-related matters are most meaningful to our business.
We greatly value their perspectives and areas of interest and have used these to formulate our sustainability executional roadmap and actions going forward.
The survey requested each stakeholder group to rank 22 ESG  and sustainability topics on a scale of importance, which were identified by industry, sector and peer analysis; leading ESG reporting frameworks, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”), and the TCFD; emerging topic analysis; topics raised as important to stakeholders through other formal and informal engagements; Dentsply Sirona’s existing sustainability strategy and reporting structure; and topics raised by internal subject matter experts.
The topics and issues we assess are all of material importance to the business and we have identified the priority, significant and foundational areas for our stakeholders, all of which we are currently focusing on.
PRIORITY:  Business Ethics and Compliance, Contribution to  Global Oral Health, and Corporate Governance    SIGNIFICANT : Clinical Education, Diversity, Equity and  Inclusion, and Ethical Marketing and Promotion    FOUNDATIONAL : Climate Change Risk, Community  Engagement and Philanthropy, and Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy These insights from the materiality assessment have influenced the immediate and long-term actions we will take going forward, specifically the environmental actions which will be outlined in our sustainability executional roadmap.
BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS ACROSS  OUR THREE SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS • Engagement on environmental goals  • Co ntinuing the FDI World Dental Federation partnership ( p.24 ) to  promote sustainability in dentistry amongst practitioners, and in 2021  we helped develop the Consensus Statement and relevant sustainability infographics    •  In creased sustainability awareness via customer newsletters and direct  communication with commercial, clinical, marketing teams • Cl inical Education, resources and expertise sharing, including the launch  of a new curriculumCustomers • Improved environmental data management platform and environmental d ata quality • Wo rking to improve the environment where we operateCommunities• BEYOND launch communication program and assets including newsletters, Y ammer posts, video content, digital posters, train the trainer presentations  and intranet content  • En gagement of onsite-level environmental opportunities to achieve our  goals, including employee participation in environmental initiatives • In creasing awareness around our environmental performance  • La unched new employee benefit of one paid day off/ year for community  service and environment support for all permanent non-hourly employeesEmployees • Active co-founder of the FDI World Dental Federation Sustainability in D entistry Initiative alongside Colgate, Procter & Gamble, GSK and TePe to  create the Sustainability in Dentistry programPartners • Created patient education material through the FDI World Dental Federation p artnership which outlines how to make more sustainable choices as a  dental patient  Patients (including Byte Customers)• Engagement on environmental goals • ES G disclosures aligned to SASB and TCFD  • Co mmunications on CDP climate survey   • Tr ansparent disclosure and engagement on climate risk and the sustainability  strategy through digital hub and regular updates and meetingsInvestors • Engagement on environmental goals • Su stainability commitment reinforced and Scope 3 emission training led at  the annual Global Supplier ForumSuppliers • Engagement on environmental goals • De veloping Corporate Environmental Health & Safety standards aligned with  frameworks including ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001Government regulators and policymakersOur-SustainabilityActively engaging with our stakeholders ensures that we remain accountable for delivering the targets and  commitments we have made as part of our sustainability strategy.
We have continuously communicated with them following the launch of our BEYOND sustainability strategy to increase awareness and understanding of the sustainable actions Dentsply Sirona is taking, as well as to inspire individuals to take action to drive sustainable change throughout the dental industry.
In addition to our recent outreach as part of our materiality assessment, we communicate with our stakeholders about issues across our three pillars of action through stakeholder meetings, newsletters, customer surveys, employee engagement surveys and trainings, supplier forums, sales contacts, Clinical Education trainings and meetings, conferences, as well as direct engagement and external channels such as our social media channels and the Sustainability hub.
HEALTHY   PLANET BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business• Engagement on social goals  • Cl inical research and studies  • Aw ards for dental students • En hanced our Women in Dentistry program through the Smart Integration  Award, Dentsply Sirona First to 50 program and the Dentsply Sirona Key  Opinion Leader (“KOL”) program • Cl inical Education, resources and expertise sharing  • In creased awareness via customer newsletters and direct communication  with commercial, clinical, marketing teamsCustomers • Local community volunteerism and donation programs • Sm ile Train partnership to advance the future of cleft care  • La unch of DS Global Community Engagement Policy  • La unch of Volunteer Time Off program to increase employee volunteerism  for community serviceCommunities• BEYOND launch communication assets including newsletters, Yammer posts, video c ontent and intranet content  • En gagement on social goals  • Em ployee resource groups (“ERGs”) • Ong oing DE&I training and awareness programs  • On d emand LinkedIn learning training offered globally • Gl obal mentoring program • Le adership development and the emerging talent programs • Em ployee lifecycle and engagement surveys to gauge and respond to employee  sentiment  • Gl obal employee health, safety, and wellness programs  • Em ployee awards and recognition  • La unched new employee benefit of one paid day off / year for community service   and environment support for all permanent non-hourly employees • Ro ll out of the culture program and development of our Vision, Purpose & Mission,  Values and Operating PrinciplesEmployees • Engagement on social goals • Co nnecting with new and existing partners to establish and launch new  meaningful projects, such as the Smile Train, Dentsply Sirona and the FDI World Dental Federation program to create global digital standards for cleft treatment   •  Jo ined the Platform for Better Oral Health in Europe (in the beginning of  2022) as a corporate partner to expand our engagement for better oral health and healthy smilesPartners • Provision of educational resources for patients • Su stainability communications programs rolled out in partnership with the  FDI World Dental Federation to increase awareness around the importance of sustainability   •  Ed ucational Infographics and videos developed together with the FDI World  Dental Federation   • Pr oduct donations that increase access to oral care, by offering free  treatment and oral products to underserved communities  • Pat ient Advocacy Groups  • Re mote and connected care programsPatients (including Byte Customers) • Engagement on social goals  • En gagement on labor practices, human rights, and DE&I   • An nual updates on Board and ESG committee composition diversity  • Qu arterly calls and other regular engagements such as, product pipeline,  acquisitions, and growth  Investors • Engagement on social goals • Bu siness partner code of conduct to ensure expectations with suppliers are  mutually met  • Mo dern Slavery Acts  • Su pplier quality agreements • Re gular supplier audits • Ho sted Supplier ForumSuppliers • Engagement on social goals • Di sclosure of diversity figures  • Pa rticipation in public-private partnerships that increase access to care  among communities Government regulators and policymakers HEALTHY   SMILES BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business• Clinical trial standards, protective data sharing measures and post-market  cli nical studies • In structions for Use are supported by standardized validation and digital  communication processes    • Pri vacy Policy  • Ma rketing to Professionals Code of Conduct  • Et hical Customer Interaction Policy  • Bu siness Partner Code of Conduct  • Po st-market clinical studies  • Cu stomer service and complaint handling  • Cy ber security program to protect customer data • Cl inical Education, resources and expertise sharing  • In creased awareness via customer newsletters and direct communication with  commercial, clinical, marketing teamsCustomers • Compliance with local laws and regulationsCommunities• Ethics and compliance hotline   • Em ployee training on governance topics including:   •   Wo rkplace safety, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, Data privacy    and  security, Business gifts and entertainment, Hotline whistleblower    sys tem, Anti-corruption and anti-bribery, Anti-harassment • EH S Frontline Leadership training at all sites, fostering a culture of EHS  excellence ( p.68 ) • Im plemented Humantech expert Ergonomics solution, achieving a   92% reduction in ergonomic injuries in 2021 vs.
2019Employees • Member of numerous advisory boards for partner organizations including the U niversity of Pennsylvania Dental Medicine Board of Overseers, American  Dental Association Science and Research Institute Board of Directors, American College of Dentists, Dental Trade AlliancePartners • Member of numerous advisory boards for partner organizations including t he Advisory Board of the Harvard School of Dental Medicine Initiative to  Integrate Oral Health and MedicinePatients (including Byte Customers)• Regular engagements about ESG and sustainability issues   • Cod e of Ethics and Business Conduct • Re gular briefings to the Board on the cyber security programInvestors • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct • In ternational trade compliance policy  • In ternational Trade and Customs Compliance Policy  • Tr aining on anti-corruption and anti-bribery, export compliance, anti-trust  and competition law, privacy, and data protection   • Cy ber security program to ensure supplier information integrity • Pr oduct safety program • Ho sted Supplier ForumSuppliers • Maintaining updated cyber security policies and standards aligned with c yber control frameworks including ISO 27001, COBIT, NIST   • Ce rtifying facilities as appropriate to ISO 13485, EU MDD, EU MDR, OHSAS  18001, or ISO 45001 and complying with FDA QSR 820, as well as other international regulations  •  Di sclosure of political involvement, and total amount of monetary losses as a  result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and briberyGovernment regulators and policymakers HEALTHY   BUSINESS BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessSUPPORTING THE  SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS It is clear to us that the global challenges we face today cannot be solved in  isolation and we support the United Nation’s Sustainability Development Goals (“UN SDGs”) and the global call for action for all facets of society to work together and create a more prosperous, inclusive, sustainable, and resilient world.
We are committed to playing our part and have taken specific actions against the  following UN SDGs that align with our mission of going beyond the ordinary to improve lives around the world and create healthy smiles.
Ensure healthy lives   and promote well-being   for all at all ages.
in partnership to increase access to high quality dental care, deliver innovative solutions through new products and provide inclusive Clinical Education.
We partner with numerous charitable organizations and initiatives at a local, national, and international level to provide and improve accessible oral healthcare.
We share our expertise and donate resources, evidenced by our five-year partnership with Smile Train.
Last year we supported dental surgeries for as many as 730 children with clefts and we have committed to donating US$5 million over five years.
From the start of the partnership in 2021 to the end of 2022 we will have donated US$1 million.
The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees is of upmost importance to us, so we have implemented a dedicated EHS program that provides global processes and trainings.
In 2021 we also launched our Global Employee Assistance Program, a company-provided benefit for all employees around the world.
This resource is accessible to all our employees and their families, designed to support them through any personal or professional challenge.
We are also committed to achieving a Top Decile Injury and Illness Prevention/Avoidance Rate by 2025 and ensure our actions are in line with EHS frameworks and certifications such as OHSAS 18001 and ISO BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessPromote sustained, inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and productive  employment and decent work for all.
Building and maintaining an engaged and productive workforce  is a major priority for us, and this means investing in, developing, and retaining the best talent.
We do this through several initiatives, including our Performance Development Process which enables goal setting, individual development planning, and quarterly feedback conversations between employees and their managers.
Our Talent Review process further supports identification of internal succession plans and development gaps.
To support our employee’s development, we have launched  our robust online learning library, global mentoring program, Emerging Talent program and Leadership Development programs.
More than 6,758 employees have logged in since our March 2021 launch and just under 300 employees are registered as part of our global mentoring program.
We are also committed to increasing female representation throughout the industry and work with the most talented female KOLs and experts through our Clinical Education learning program and our Female Speaker Development Program.
We also support the Smart Integration Award.
We create inclusive working environments for all that we meet and, in line with the UN International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, Dentsply Sirona supports global efforts to address the issues of exploitation, slavery, and human trafficking through internal policies, as well as through direct actions with business partners in our supply chain.
This is reiterated through our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct which extends to all employees, and we have specific codes of conduct that extend to our business partners and suppliers.
Achieve gender equality and empower all   women and girls.
We are working towards achieving our global gender parity and gender pay parity goals by 2025 and we are establishing in-depth data verification frameworks that will enable us to collect and track our gender parity and pay parity data.
In 2021, we assessed the gender pay parity across all our professional managerial level employees, and we are developing a global job catalogue to ensure we accurately and consistently calculate salaries for new hires, promotions, and job changes.
We are a proud member of the cross-sector Paradigm for Parity initiative.
At the end of 2021, our Employee Resource Group for Women had more than 650 members and an average of 200 people participated at the global events.
We have also established the Dentsply Sirona Academy’s First to 50 Women Speaker Development Program to elevate the voices of accomplished female dental professionals and create a future for dental education that is more inclusive and enables more women to share their expertise.
We hosted two classes in 2021 and plan to double the number of cohorts in 2022.Ensure inclusive and equitable quality   education and promote lifelong learning  opportunities for all.
We provide industry leading education in dentistry and oral health via our Dentsply Sirona Academy, an open online platform that provides dental professionals with resources, scientific information, product tutorial, clinical studies.
In the last year we have provided more than 7,600 clinical  education and training courses across 80 countries, a 3% increase compared with 2020.
We also actively invest in global professional development  opportunities for our employees, including tools and trainings, such as the LinkedIn Learning, Leading Inclusively Training, the #OwnYourJourney Development Toolkit, and a Global Mentoring Program (400 employees are currently participating as mentors or mentees).
BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessReduce inequality within   and among countries.
People sit at the heart of business, and we are committed to  DE&I across all the markets which we operate and engage with.
We have rolled out a comprehensive DE&I training and awareness programs which include training on unconscious bias, cross-cultural communication, allyship, DE&I, as well as supporting ERGs. We have also increased our Conversation of Understanding initiative from 15 global sessions in 2020 to 26 global sessions in 2021 and increased our ERGs from three in 2020 to seven in 2022.
These groups serve as a way to engage with, and listen to, our employees in order to foster and implement an inclusive working environment for everyone.
We are working towards achieving our global gender parity and gender pay parity goals by 2025 and we are establishing in-depth data verification frameworks that will collect and track our gender parity and pay parity data.
Build resilient infrastructure, promote   inclusive and sustainable industrialization   and foster innovation.
Last year we invested US$171 million into research and development (“R&D”), an increase of 39% from 2020 in line with our mission to increase spending YoY.
We currently employ more than 650 R&D professionals including scientists, engineers and software developers — who are tasked to focus on developing the best quality, design, ergonomics, digitization and improved workflows for dental professionals.
In 2021 we advanced our partnership with the FDI World Dental Federation’s Sustainability in Dentistry initiative ( p.24 ),  which was created to promote sustainable practices within dentistry and mitigate climate change across the industry.
We have participated with a group of industry leaders to publish a Consensus Statement outlining the global environmental impacts of dentistry and a suite of resources that will guide and support the dental supply chain, practitioners and patients be more environmentally conscious and sustainable.
BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessStrengthen the means of implementation   and revitalize the global partnership   for sustainable development.
We are committed to leaving a positive impact on the  communities we work with, and this requires active engagement through collaborative, long-lasting partnerships that support local, national and international initiatives.
We work with the likes of the FDI World Dental Federation ( p.24 ), to further global  sustainability initiatives and progress across the dental industry.
In addition, we partner with Smile Train ( p.41) to deliver cleft  care to those that need it most, and we have supported as many as 730 children’s cleft surgeries through this partnership.
We also work with several local partners to increase access to oral health care which can be found on p.39-44 .Take urgent action   to combat climate change and its impacts.
As a global leader in manufacturing dental products and technologies, we have a responsibility to act as environmental stewards, and we are constantly looking for innovative ways to minimize the environmental impact of our operations.
We have already achieved our initial short-term target to reduce  Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission intensity and water withdrawal intensity by 15%, and we are continuing to work on reaching our total waste production goal by ≥  15% by 2025.
We are also in the  process of conducting a global audit to inform new intermediate goals, which will ensure our Company will be Net Zero by 2050.
We are also working to characterize our Scope 3 GHG emissions by evaluating the carbon impact from our entire value chain.
We also submitted our first annual Carbon Disclosure Project  (“CDP”) climate survey and received results in line with industry and geographical standards.
We look forward to leveraging the outputs from our sustainability executional roadmap to deliver and exceed the expectations of our sustainability strategy.
We will continue to make disclosures in alignment with the recommendations of TCFD and SASB.
Ensure sustainable consumption   and production patterns.
Minimizing the environmental impact of our operations and protecting the environment is central to our sustainability strategy and we are constantly seeking new ways to reduce our energy consumption, and waste generation, as well as increase water conservation, and recycle and reuse materials wherever we can.
This includes Company-wide and site-level actions.
Throughout 2022 we have been conducting energy, waste and water use audits to identify feasible reduction opportunities in each area.
We are pleased to share that we have achieved our initial short- term 2025 targets to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by 15% and reduce water withdrawal intensity by 15%.
We are in the process of conducting a global audit to identify more energy saving and water withdrawal reducing opportunities and we will be setting new longer-term targets as a result.
We are continuing to improve our global Environmental Health & Safety programs and ensure our standards are aligned with recognized consensus standards, such as ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 or equivalent.
BEYOND | Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to sustainability  Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessOur Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 21We have always taken our role  as an environmental steward seriously because a healthy planet is fundamental to our future.
As a global leader in manufacturing dental products and technologies, we continuously seek to identify solutions to minimize the environmental impact of our operations and conserve resources.
As part of our commitment to expand our engagement with stakeholders around our sustainability strategy and gather tangible insights, in 2021, we conducted in-depth analysis to measure and evaluate the environmental impact of our business.
As a result, we now have centralized global ESG metrics and an environmental baseline against which we can benchmark our progress.
To build on these insights, we are currently creating a detailed sustainability executional roadmap to ensure we reach our flagship sustainability goals as well as set new targets that look beyond 2025.We remain committed to creating sustainable working environments by ensuring our facilities and offices are energy efficient and implementing robust recycling and waste management practices.
We have initiated audits at our sites that account for more than 90% of our total energy consumption and have already implemented several energy reduction improvement opportunities.
We encourage our employees  to consider their personal environmental footprint and have implemented a Bike to Work scheme in Hanau, Germany and a car sharing program in Ballaigues, Switzerland.
We have also installed Green Walls in the office in Ballaigues to improve air quality and installed beehives on the roof of our Munich office to support the local ecosystem and biodiversity.
Additionally, in 2021 we advanced our industry leading partnership with the FDI World Dental Federation’s Sustainability in Dentistry initiative, which was created to define and promote sustainable practices within dentistry and mitigate the industry’s impact on climate change.
We have published a Consensus Statement outlining the global environmental impacts of dentistry and ways of reducing these accessible to all industry players.
We are also working to develop a suite of resources that will help the dental supply chain, practitioners and patients be more environmentally conscious and sustainable.
(See p.24  for  more information) HEALTHY   PLANET Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 22Transparent reporting This is the second year we are reporting in alignment with the TCFD recommendations and  the SASB standards.
This is in line with our commitment to incorporate climate-related issues into our strategic and financial planning processes, and to transparently and consistently report the positive progress we make each year.
In 2021 we completed our first CDP questionnaire and received an overall “C” score, which  is in line with the average performance for both Medical Equipment and Supplies sector and North America overall.
As we progress our sustainability strategy, announced in September 2020, we will continue  to engage with the CDP and demonstrate the critical actions we are taking to combat climate change and strive to become a leader in our industry.
Our long-term targets are being established as part of the sustainability executional roadmap we are developing, and we look forward to sharing this publicly to further demonstrate our climate strategy in action.
We are also aware that the US Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) is developing proposed requirements for companies to report their Climate-Related Financial Disclosure and that these may be enacted in the near future.
HEALTHY PLANET  GOALS AND PROGRESSLast year we set out four ambitious Healthy Planet strategic priorities and targets.
We are pleased that we have already met our Scope 1 and 2 emission intensity and water withdrawal intensity reduction goals, and we are encouraged by the solid progress we are making against our goals.
We are in the process of finalizing our sustainability executional roadmap and conducting a global energy, waste, and water use audit.
This audit will inform new targets that look beyond 2025, and we will be able to share these soon.
Working to achieve   total waste reduction   ≥ 15% by 2025    [from a 2019 baseline]Achieved water  withdrawal intensity for manufacturing / warehouse operations   ≥ 15% by 2025   [from a 2019 baseline] Achieved combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission intensity reduction ≥ 15% by 2025    [from a 2019 baseline] Working to achieve Net zero carbon emissions (Scopes 1-3) by 0% Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 23SUSTAINABILITY IN DENTISTRY –   WORLD DENTAL FEDERATION PARTNERSHIP One way we are taking action for a brighter world is through our  partnership with the FDI World Dental Federation’s Sustainability in Dentistry initiative.
The pioneering program  was established in 2021 to reduce dentistry’s collective CO 2 footprint and promote  sustainable practices among dental practitioners and patients as well as throughout the industry wide supply chain.
Dentsply Sirona is one of five founding partners, and the only dental device company, alongside GlaxoSmithKline, Colgate, Procter & Gamble,   and TePe.  In March 2022, the founding partners created a Consensus Statement, which is a comprehensive analysis of the status quo in dentistry.
The statement outlines the global environmental impacts and notes that CO 2 emissions, plastic  waste, packaging and end-user single use plastics are the key contributors to unsustainable practices that need to be tackled.
On the patient side, the statement notes that practitioners need to focus on prevention measures as well as high-quality interventions to achieve a reduction of their environmental footprint.
I am delighted at how the FDI World Dental Federation’s Sustainability in Dentistry project has brought together important players and experts willing to share their expertise and time to create sustainability guidelines for the dental industry.
The next step will be to put these guidelines into practice, and the FDI World Dental Federation’s invites all dental professionals around the world to join in this effort from September onwards.
It is a big task we need to tackle and every single practice around the world can help us make a real difference.
Prof.
Ihsane Ben Yahya,   FDI World Dental Federation President The statement also provides  a strategic framework for reducing the environmental footprint of the entire dental industry, leveraging the principles of reduction, reuse and recycle.
It formalizes the commitment from members to strive for continuous cross-industry improvement and collaboration.
The Consensus Statement was created through a series of workshops that included participation from global sustainability and environment academics, representatives from worldwide dental associations and corporate affairs and communications representatives from the founding partner companies.
The statement is the foundation of the partnership’s Pledge for Sustainable Dentistry which was launched in 2022 to encourage the dental supply chain, dental practitioners and patients to be more environmentally conscious and sustainable.
This is being developed alongside a toolkit to help dental clinics improve their sustainability practices   by providing guidelines and tools, such as:  A description of how qu ality care can improve  sustainability.
Specific strategies dental t eams can adopt to reduce  carbon emissions and waste.
A plan outlining actions the i ndustry needs to take to  become more sustainable.
The Sustainability in Dentistry partnership has already published an infographic in seven languages for dental professionals to share with patients to encourage them to make sustainable choices when caring for their oral health.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 24Sustainability in Dentistry goals: • Inspire and equip all stakeholders to address the issue of sustainability in oral healthcare, identify  p otential solutions and strategies, and build motivation and commitment to reducing environmental  impact.
• En courage stakeholders from all levels of the supply chain to manage plastic use in a practical and  sustainable manner, and pledge to follow the FDI World Dental Federation’s Sustainability Code of Practice.
•  Mo tivate and equip dentists and their teams with the ability to improve sustainability in their dental  practices.
• In form the general public of the role they can play in ensuring a sustainable future for dentistry  through improved oral health and by making sustainable decisions.
• En gage with governments and policy makers (via National Dental Associations) to deliver a model  of sustainable dentistry.
Visit our FDI  partnership  website Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 25Climate Risk Action We have integrated ESG aspects into our yearly  Enterprise Risk Assessment, a multi-disciplinary process that reviews our entire value chain, including direct and upstream operations, looking   at the short- and medium-term horizons.
During 2021 we advanced our climate-related  efforts by working with Green Diamond to use an electronic platform to collect our environmental sustainability data, which also analyzes our global GHG inventory process.
We are already in the process of implementing more robust processes to identify, assess and respond to climate-related risks and opportunities and these will be detailed in our upcoming sustainability executional roadmap.
Dentsply Sirona considers the following risk types in our decision-making process: current and emerging regulations, technology, legal action, market related risks, reputational risks, and acute and chronic physical risks.
Additionally, the Board schedules periodic reviews  of all Enterprise Risk Management topics including Business Continuity Planning, which assess climate-related risk for our overall Supply Chain.
REDUCING EMISSIONSAt Dentsply Sirona, we are  committed to minimizing and mitigating the short- and long-term environmental impact of our global business operations.
This includes assessing our own operations and working with suppliers to ensure that we are contributing to positive change across the sector.
CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS  1.
Emerging regulation and enhanced emissions-reporting obligations  – T he US SEC has announced  they will establish a statute relative to Climate-Related Financial Disclosure, closely resembling the  TCFD framework.
We are developing a compliance strategy to meet the requirements established by the draft legislation, anticipated to be adopted in the near future.
We are also reviewing our reporting requirements against other upcoming jurisdictional standards such as Europe’s CSRD.
2.
Em erging regulation and carbon pricing mechanics – The US government has discussed multiple  legislative avenues that would establish enforcement mechanisms to curb GHG emissions, including the potential for a federal carbon tax.
We will continue to evaluate and integrate this risk into our decision-making processes.
3.
Ac ute physical events and increased severity and frequency of extreme weather impacting supplier  production and transportation  – We recognize weather conditions associated with climate change are  anticipated to adversely impact the supply of raw materials for suppliers located in areas susceptible to extreme weather conditions.
Our Crisis24 system tracks information related to weather events, providing the ability to recognize and react to associated operational risks.Our Chief Supply Chain Officer, part of our ESG Committee, is directly responsible for reporting to the Board on all topics impacting environmental, health and safety matters, and business continuity, which includes supplier failure associated with climate-related risks.
Written objectives and performance relative to those objectives are provided to the Board for regular review.
The Company recognizes, and is working to address, the following present and long-term climate-related  risks and opportunities: CLIMATE-RELATED OPPORTUNITIES  1.
Energy type  – w e continue to measure and report on energy-related GHG emissions, and we are  working with Green Diamond to identify opportunities that will improve the management of our energy use, reduce operating costs and GHG emissions, increase responsiveness to changing environmental conditions and identify alternative energy sources.
2.
Re silience  – our robust focus on sustainability, including climate-related aspects, improves our ability  to attract and retain employees.
3.
Pr oducts and Services  – we recognize the benefit of creating environmentally sensitive products  that meet customer demand.
We strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our products such as improving catheter coatings, making recyclable packaging and products, and not using heavy metals to manufacture our products where feasible.
We also incorporate the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (“RoHS”) into component selection and material safety analysis and carcinogens are reviewed and documented.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 26OUR EMISSIONS   Reducing emissions is key to our environmental strategy and  we understand the importance of transitioning to a low carbon economy.
We set intermediate targets to reduce the intensity of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by at least 15% by 2025, and we are pleased to report that we have already met this goal.
In 2019 we set a baseline for Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions and we  are working to develop and report our Scope 3 GHG emissions by evaluating the carbon impact from our entire value chain, which includes suppliers, manufacturers, and distributors.
In 2022, we hosted a Global Supplier Forum where we communicated our Healthy Planet commitments to all our suppliers, highlighted the importance of working together to track tracking Scopes 1-3 emissions, as well as Dentsply Sirona’s expectations going forward.
More than 300 suppliers attended the forum and left with a clear understanding of the fact that we are going to work with them to  quantify our Scope 3 emissions and that this will be a key priority for us moving forward.
Together, and through the development of our sustainability executional roadmap, we will identify reduction opportunities and set new actions and targets to achieve our 2050 net zero goal.
We are continuing to work with Schneider Resource Advisor as  our global energy management partner and have implemented Green Diamond as our environmental data management platform.
These partnerships provide insight into our energy use by location and respective cost, which allows us to effectively manage our energy consumption and concurrently reduce GHG emissions and operating cost.
This data also gives us the ability to improve our responsiveness to changing conditions and identify opportunities to consider alternative energy sources.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 27In 2021, our total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity (metric  tonnes CO2/US$M Net Sales)  decreased by 17% from the 2019  ba seline measurement, representing an absolute decrease of 5,463  metric tonnes of greenhouse gas emitted.
However, emissions on an absolute basis increased in 2021 because we added three new sites to our data set.
In additional overall site emissions also decreased in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, impacting operations across all our sites.
Therefore, we are using the 2019 baseline as a more meaningful comparative for business-as-usual operations.
OUR TOTAL GROSS GLOBAL SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS BY REGION Region Scope 1 emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) Americas 2,Europe, Middle East and Africa 6,Asia Pacific OUR TOTAL GROSS GLOBAL SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS BY REGION Region Scope 2 emissions, location-based (metric tonnes CO2e) Americas 12,Europe, Middle East and Africa 12,Asia Pacific 4058  The greenhouse gas program is developed in alignment with methodology as outlined in the WRI GHG Protocol for  C orporations.
9  The baseline year was adjusted to include sites in scope of the operational boundary 2021 reporting year.
The data also r eflects adjustments associated with data improvements as well as acquired and divested sites.
10  The inventory includes an estimated 95% of owned and operated manufacturing facilities, major warehouses, and major offic es, and an estimated 98% of square footage.
Where information has been omitted, it has been deemed  immaterial.
Information captured and published prior to 2019 was not fully inclusive of all material sites.ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS (“GHG”) EMISSIONSElectrical Energy (“GJ”) 434,658 372,348 423,449  Electrical Energy (“kWHr”) 120,747,898 103,438,353 117,634,017  Scope 1 emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) 9,753 8,501 9,828  Scope 1 emissions (metric tonnes/$M Net Sales) 2.4 2.5 2.3  Scope 2 emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) 33,661 26,678 28,124  Scope 2 emissions (metric tonnes/$M Net Sales) 8.4 8.0 6.6  Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) 43,413 35,179 37,950  Scope 1 and 2 emissions (metric tonnes/$M Net Sales) 10.8 10.5 9.0  Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 28Sustainable office space In September 2021, the Dentsply Sirona team in Slovakia moved  in as one of the tenants to Einpark Offices, a new sustainable office building in Bratislava.
Einpark Offices is the first administrative building in Slovakia  to gain a LEED PLATINUM certification and is in the top 1% of the most sustainable buildings in the world.
The site includes an automatic electric composter that reduces and recovers biological waste in the building, charging stations for electric cars, a rainwater capture system, and a green vegetation roof that prevents the building from overheating and improves the surrounding microclimate.
Several systems in Einpark Offices operate automatically by  monitoring temperature and air quality.
For example, intelligent air conditioning automatically shuts off when a window is opened or, conversely, intensifies air circulation in the room based on sensors that monitor CO 2 concentration.
Thanks to the combination of intelligent technologies and carefully selected materials, Einpark Offices provide up to 77% energy savings and 51% water savings compared to standard buildings.
As a result, in one year the Einpark Offices will: •  Sa ve 2.3 million liters of drinking water • Sa ve 650,000kg of CO• Process 50,000kg of bio-waste • Re duce biological waste by 90%Bratislava   Slovakia New approach to bottled water in Salzburg and Vienna officesTo reduce carbon emissions caused by transport and production  of plastic bottles, our offices in Salzburg and Vienna have changed their approach to the consumption of water.
The offices have invested in four soda machines and modern, reusable glass jugs.
The initiative has enabled the site to reduce the carbon footprint by approximately 500 kilograms of CO 2 per year.
The  Salzburg office, alone, has eliminated 6,000 bottles annually, reducing the environmental impacts that were associated with plastic bottles.Salzburg, Wien Austria Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 29Solar energy use rising at Wellspect’s Kazan facility  Our Wellspect manufacturing site in Kazan, Turkey, installed 1,155  solar panels in October 2021, leading to the generation of 300,23 MW of power.
11 The total yearly saving capacity is estimated to  reach 500MVh which equates to a reduction of 150 tonnes of CO 2 emissions annually.
Daily generation changes with weather  conditions, but on average the panels supply approximately 15% of the electricity needed to operate the site.
And the team is not stopping there.
They are working with  engineers to determine if they can install solar panels on the face of the building’s south side.
They have also begun a project to replace existing service vehicles with electric ones, which includes constructing parking shades with solar panels on the roofs that would power the vehicles’ charging stations.Kazan   Turkey Reducing CO2 emissions and electricity savings Bensheim is the largest production site owned by Dentsply Sirona and as a result we have implemented several environmental targets and programs designed to improve the environmental impact of the site.
Last year we installed technology that measures and detects leakage from our compressed air supply, and by the end of 2022 we hope to reduce our CO 2 emissions by  29 tonnes per year and make electricity savings of 90 MWh per year.
We also installed hot water heat pump technology in the changing rooms of two buildings which will reduce CO 2 emissions  by 4 tonnes per year, and electricity saving by 12 MWh per year.
Bensheim   Germany 11  As of July Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 30REDUCING WASTEWe strive to identify and implement best practices in waste  management, because we understand that treating waste sustainably relies on a circular economy – meaning we need to prioritize the recycling and reusing of products and materials over disposal.
As part of our sustainability executional roadmap, we are developing  a global waste reduction strategy that will support the achievement of our short-term goal of reducing our total waste by at least 15% by 2025, as well as set out long-term waste management ambitions beyond 2025.
Over the last three years, a core pillar of our waste management  approach has been identifying opportunities to reduce the use of single use plastic and paper waste through innovation and leveraging technology, as well as reducing the amount of hazardous waste generated by our production process.
In 2021 our total waste generated (metric tonnes/US$m net sales)  increased from 1.6 in 2020 to 2.0. This increase was in part due to improved waste data collection associated with environmental data platform implementation, site shutdowns and one-off large waste disposal efforts, such as on-site construction work, and closing down our York-College Avenue site.
Although our overall waste generation was observed to increase in  association with waste generated during site shutdowns and one-time disposal efforts, we remain confident that we will achieve our 2025 waste reduction target.
We are continuing to work with our partner, Green Diamond, to continuously improve the data collection across all our sites and reduce our waste streams.
Together, we are translating new data and insights into tangible actions that will drive long-term change, and we will outline these in our upcoming sustainability executional roadmap.
Installation   of water coolers   to eliminate  single-use   plastic waste  In-line process  piping, eliminating  manual additions  and material  losses Reduction of  production waste  through use of  digital tools and  Lean methodology  principles Eliminating  printing of  Instructions for  Product Use  documentsPaper   recycling  programs Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 31OUR WASTE  STEWARDSHIP FIGURES FOR 2019/2020/2021  Increasing digital engagement led by our  marketing and sales team  In 2021 our Zhermack GmbH Germany marketing  and sales team, based in Marl a.
Duemmer, committed to saving paper through digitalization.
The team at Zhermack GmbH Germany is responsible for selling high-quality medical products for clinical dental practice supplies, orthodontics and dental laboratories, and historically the marketing, communications and sales team heavily relied on printed catalogues, flyers and product information to reach their many customers.
To increase the sustainable credentials of the  site, last year site leadership team implemented a 20/80 rule – meaning that 80% of all marketing materials had to become digitalized.
The program has been welcomed by employees and customers alike, and the team is on track to become almost paperless within the next year.
Marl   Germany 12  Waste is characterized in accordance with local regulatory definitions 13  The baseline year was adjusted to include sites in scope of the operational boundary for the 2021 reporting year.
T he data also reflects adjustments associated with data improvements as well as acquired and divested sites.
14  The inventory includes an estimated 95% of owned and operated manufacturing facilities, major warehouses, and major offic es, and an estimated 98% of square footage.
Where information has been omitted, it has been deemed  immaterial.
Information captured and published prior to 2019 was not fully inclusive of all material sites.WASTESolid (non-hazardous Waste Generated (metric tonnes) 5,366 4,314 6,001  Recycled/Reused (% of generated) 48 45 40  Incinerated (% of generated) 11 10 7  Energy capture (% of generated) 24 28 22  Sent to landfill (% of generated) 16 15 26  Universal Waste Generated (metric tonnes) 3 3 9  Hazardous Waste Generated (metric tonnes) 1,394 1,135 2,598  Recycled/Reclaimed (% of generated) 24 21 21  Waste of energy (% of generated) 41 45 25  Total Waste Generated (metric tonnes/$M Net Sales) 1.7 1.6 2.0Waste reduction management in Ballaigues Our manufacturing facility in Ballaigues,  Switzerland, is using sustainable practices to recycle a variety of plastics and polymers used to make several Dentsply Sirona products, such as ProTaper files and K-files.
On average, the facility produces around six  tonnes of ABS polymer and polyamide PA66 plastic waste per year.
100% of this waste is recycled and used by other companies as raw material to produce other goods, such as using the ABS polymer to produce sustainable garden furniture.
We also reground the polyamide PA66 up to four times on site so it can be re-used throughout our production line.
When the polyamide PA66 no longer meets our standards framework for use, the material is used as a raw material by other companies to produce other goods.
The recycling program is one of many  sustainability initiatives at our Ballaigues site, which owns the MINERGIE® label for low-energy-consumption buildings and the highest possible use of renewable energy.
Between 2018 and 2020, the site also successfully completed a three-year carbon emissions reduction plan that resulted in a reduction of 326 tonnes of CO 2 and a 13% increase in energy  efficiency.
Ballaigues   Switzerland Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 32Water stewardship remains a crucial element of our  environmental strategy and we are working with our regional teams to implement processes and initiatives that reduce our water intake and improve our water withdrawal and discharge tracking.
Our water management programs include incorporating closed  loop and water quenching systems to replace once-through cooling systems, reducing sanitary water consumption and identifying and repairing water leaks.
As a result, we have been able to successfully reduce our water withdrawal intensity over the last three years.
In 2021, we reduced our water withdrawal by ~22% compared   with 2020, from 77.8 cubic meters/US$M Net Sales in 2020 to   61.0 cubic meters/US$M Net Sales in 2021.
As a result, we have  already met our 2025 target to reduce our water withdrawal for manufacturing / warehouse operations by at least 15%, and our upcoming sustainability executional roadmap will set out our next ambitious target.
15  Water withdrawal data for sites under Dentsply Sirona’s operational control is provided except for some leased  f acilities where this data was not made available by the landlord.
16  The baseline year was adjusted to include sites in scope of the operational boundary for the 2021 reporting year.
T he data also reflects adjustments associated with data improvements as well as acquired and divested sites.
17  The inventory includes an estimated 95% of owned and operated manufacturing facilities, major warehouses, and m ajor offices, and an estimated 98% of square footage.
Where information has been omitted, it has been deemed  immaterial.
Information captured and published prior to 2019 was not fully inclusive of all material sites.WATERWater withdrawal (cubic meters) 331,733 259,697 258,177  Water withdrawal (cubic meters/$M Net Sales) 82.5 77.8 61.0 RESPONSIBLE WATER STEWARDSHIP shutterstock.com|Marian Weyo Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 33Wellspect reduces water consumption Wellspect creates reliable and user-friendly  products for continence care, with as little environmental impact as possible.
In 2021, the Company fully implemented a   new coating process at its manufacturing  location in Mölndal, Sweden to reduce its   energy consumption and carbon footprint   while complying with strict quality, patient   safety and compliance regulations.
The process contains a 100% bio-based  renewable chemical and is contributing to a substantial reduction in water consumption:   each Wellspect product sold now requires   15% less water, and we have set an annual target to reduce the water consumption per product sold by 17% by 2025, using 2020 as the baseline.
We are also studying how best to implement  the new coating concept at our manufacturing location in Kazan, Turkey by 2025.
Installing the coating process there will help us further reduce our environmental footprint through decreased volumes of hazardous waste and the elimination of halogenated emissions being released into   the air.Hygienic waterless urinals and an oil /   water separation project in Mexicali Our facility in Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico is  on track to complete two water usage reduction projects by the end of 2022 in an effort to mitigate water resource pressures now and in the future.
Condensed water from the building’s air  conditioning system that produces residual oil is being separated and disposed of to make the water cleaner.
We are in the process of creating an irrigation system so the water can be used for gardening purposes.
Another initiative – waterless toilets– will reduce  the Mexicali facility’s total black water usage by 2%, or 180 cubic meters.
These toilets use a “Drain and Seal Technology with a Double Sphere” that captures all odors and is also equipped with a preventative and maintenance function that guarantees the hygienic upkeep of toilets.
The team began the project in March 2022 and expects to have the new urinals installed by December.Mölndal   SwedenBaja California   Mexico Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 34Wellspect increases recycled paper use Our business, Wellspect, makes a conscious  decision to choose paper products made with materials from well-managed forests and recycled sources.
In 2021, 62% of customer boxes and 100% of transport boxes for our LoFric products were made from Forest Stewardship Council (“FSC”) certified material.
We will continue to increase the amount of FSC  certified material we use in our packaging, with the goal of making all our boxes using 100% FSC certified material and therefore fully recyclable by 2025.
Molndal   Sweden Bensheim saves raw materials At our Bensheim site in Germany we have  substituted crude oil as a cooling lubricant in the production of Gas to Liquid (“GTL”) oil within our metal cutting production.
GTL oil is free of mineral oil, which is produced from waste products, and is also free of aromatics, nitrogen, heavy metals, sulfur, zinc and chlorine compounds, giving it a significantly longer life span, fewer skin damaging properties and a higher flame point.
By the end of 2021, 66% of the cooling lubricant had been replaced and we expect 100% to be replaced by the end of 2022.Bensheim   Germany  Creating safe products and building trust with our customers is foundational to our business, so we regularly conduct checks to ensure that all Dentsply Sirona products are biosafe.
You can find out more about how we do this in our Safety Data Sheets (“SDS”) housed in the Dentsply Sirona SDS Library.
As part of our process, we review and evaluate the safety of our materials to ensure we meet and exceed  regulatory standards.
These standards include the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (“RoHSD”) which is incorporated into our processes for reviewing and documenting component selection, material safety analysis, and carcinogens.
We also follow Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) that mandate waste and recycling practices when we need to dispose of our products.
As the world’s largest manufacturer of dental products and technologies, innovation sits at the heart  of our operation as we are always looking to launch new products that drive dentistry forward while also increasing access to oral health.
We are committed to delivering more digital solutions to drive sustainability within dentistry and have implemented return and trade up programs where select equipment is either refurbished and sold, or donated, to universities, educational organizations or other public institutions at discounted prices.
When we cannot breathe new life into our products, the equipment is recycled or scrapped, in line with stringent regulations, by authorized, certified service providers.PRODUCT DESIGN & LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 35We work closely with our  suppliers to monitor and avoid the use of conflict materials in our products and comply with all applicable laws and regulations governing importing and exporting products and technology when making them available for sale.
We do this via a third-party platform that assesses the production of materials, finished goods, capital equipment, molds and tooling, samples and prototypes, repaired and returned products, and technical information.
We expect all our business partners to exercise due diligence to ensure that they adopt proper import/export related policies, procedures and controls within their organizations, including proper identification of external partners, locations, details of how they do business, as well as the source locations, countries of origin, and components of the products.
AVOIDANCE OF   CONFLICT MINERALS We also expect our relevant suppliers to be active participants in our Conflict Minerals program, which we established to identify and work with suppliers toward eliminating the sourcing of gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and neighboring states, that may have been mined through non-conformant smelters in the suppliers’ supply chains.
Through an expert third-party, we exercise reasonable due diligence to establish the chain of control for raw materials to smelters as verified through the Responsible Minerals Initiative (“RMI”).
Non-conformant smelters pose a risk to human rights if the profits aid continued aggressions and human rights violations in these regions.
We expect our suppliers and distributors to follow all external laws as well as our internal policies when registering products to make them available for sale.
Products may only be sold into those countries and territories authorized by our commercial agreements.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 37Supporting our customersSupporting our people Supporting our communities Supported as many as 730 cleft surgeries by  providing cash donations as part of our Smile Train partnership     Launched significant strategic partnerships  with the FDI World Dental Federation and Smile Train in 2021 to drive change towards a more sustainable dental industry Provided 7,687 clinical education and training courses across 80 countries, a 5% increase compared with Reached 281,134 participants through global  trainings Increased R&D expenses by 39% to US$171m in  2021 vs US$123m in 2020.
R&D as a percentage of sales increased to 4% in 2021 vs 3.7% in Accelerated the pace of innovation delivering  digitally focused solutionsIn 2021, women made-up the following proportion of our global employee base:  45% Entry Level, 38% Manager, 29% Senior Manager, 26% Director, 27% Vice President   and 18% Executive Team We hired 21 employees as part of our Emerging  Talent early career program, 57% of hires were women or people of color Our 2021 global Director and above employee  base was 26% female, and in the US our Director and above employee base included 20% people of color In the US, our employee base was 70% white,  6% Asian, 10% Black or African American, 10% Hispanic or Latino We established 6 active ERGs in 2021,  increasing to 7 in Q1 2022.
Employee participation doubled in 2021 to >10% employee population In 2021 we achieved above average  participation of 82% in our employment engagement survey, exceeding our participation target of 75%  People are central to our business, be it our employees, customers, or the communities where we live and work.
Every day we seek to enhance  people’s lives through the delivery of improved and accessible oral health care.
Within our Healthy Smiles strategic pillar, we have set a number of goals, demonstrating our commitment to our people, our customers, the patients they serve, and the communities in which we operate.
We are pleased to report that  we took action to achieve more than 5.8 million smiles in 2021, meaning we have made solid progress against our target of achieving 25 million smiles by 2025.
19  In 2021 our global gender parity was 43%.
We appreciate that there is still much more to do, and we continue to implement new measures that will help us meet our goal of achieving global gender parity by 2025 (see more on p.54 ).HEALTHY SMILES  GOALS AND 2021 HIGHLIGHTS 18 As of December 2021  19  This figure is comprised of our inclusion, empowerment and benefit programs offered to employees, Clinical Education programs, equipment we provide that restores smiles in a  s ingle treatment (for example, CEREC), educational events (for example, DS World), and our community oral healthcare delivery initiatives and donations.We understand this starts with  looking after our employees and we strive to bring out the best in them by creating an inclusive and respectful workplace alongside a culture that fosters learning and growth.
We work tirelessly to improve  oral health care globally and support our customers to bring the best possible treatment and care to communities through innovative products, high-quality Clinical Education programs, and impactful partnerships.
We are proud of this work, while recognizing the ever-growing need to do more.
HEALTHY   SMILES HEALTHY SMILES 2021 HIGHLIGHTSOur Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 38The policy:  Outlines the core guiding principles of the community engagement program; Provides the key processes and controls that are to be employed to ensure charitable activities are carried out with  appropriate due diligence and reflect the Company’s vision and values; and Establishes the governance process for Dentsply Sirona’s global community charitable giving program.
IMPROVING ORAL HEALTH  FOR COMMUNITIES IN NEED  We are dedicated to improving  oral health in the communities in which we operate, whether that be through directly providing improved oral healthcare delivery, for example our work with Smile Train, working with our customers, or industry partners to make this happen.We partner with and support international, national and local organizations and initiatives around the world to provide communities with the best possible oral health.
In 2021, our philanthropic cash and in-kind donations totaled more than US$6 million.
The policy was developed by our new Global Community Engagement Committee, and we are pleased to be working with partners to participate in In September 2021, as part  of our BEYOND program, we launched our five-year strategic partnership with Smile Train, a non-profit organization and charity providing corrective surgery for children with cleft lips and palettes.
At that time, Dentsply Sirona committed to donating US$5 million over the course of the partnership to be used for the advancement of cleft care.As we further develop our global community engagement program, we are happy to announce that we have launched a Global Community Engagement & Giving Policy, effective as of July 1, 2022.
initiatives at a local, national, and international level to bring better health and well-being to communities around the world.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 39Our Sustainability PartnersCOMMUNITY INITIATIVE HIGHLIGHTS  Work and support more  than eight charitable  partners, research  centers or community  organizations Supported as many as   730 children’s cleft  surgeries via the Smile  Train partnership and  will have donated ≥ US$1  million to the program by  the end of Supported 650 dental  consultations and more  than 2,000 specialized  procedures via the State of  the Amazonas partnershipDistributed over  20,000 oral health kits  through Byte in Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 40SMILE TRAIN PARTNERSHIP  GAINS MOMENTUM In September 2021, Dentsply Sirona launched a five-year partnership with Smile Train to advance  the future of cleft care and improve oral health globally.
Together, we are building a brighter, more sustainable future for children and families worldwide who are affected by cleft lips and palates.
Smile Train is the world’s largest cleft-focused organization and has embedded sustainability into  the heart of its operating model.
The organization provides medical training, funding, and resources to help local medical and dental professionals provide long-term cleft care to local communities free of charge.
Smile Train has medical partners in more than 70 countries, and our collaboration helps fulfill Smile Train’s goal of ensuring that every person has access to high-quality, long-term comprehensive cleft care and the opportunity to live a full, productive life.
The partnership also focuses on equipping health care professionals with the skills needed to  provide treatment and raise the standard of cleft care to the highest level through clinical education and the use of cutting-edge technologies.
Dentsply Sirona has committed US$5 million to our Smile Train partnership, and from the start of the project in 2021 to the end of 2022 we will have donated at least US$1 million.
Together, we are advancing best-in-class cleft care practices by: Creating the first-ever global standard treatment protocol for digitized cleft care, in partnership with the FDI World Dental Federation Supplying digital technology, such as intraoral scanners, to make treatments safer,  accurate, comfortable, efficient, accessible and convenient so professionals are able to treat more children Providing high-quality equipment to enhance and develop state-of-the-art centers for  cleft treatment Making our entire online catalog of clinical education courses available – free of charge  – to all Smile Train oral health professionals.
In 2021, more than 60 health professionals registered for these trainings In February 2022, Dentsply Sirona initiated a joint Smile Train – FDI World Dental Federation – Dentsply Sirona partnership to develop a first-of-its-kind global standard protocols for digital cleft treatment.
This partnership will increase access to digital cleft treatments and advance cleft care for the one in 700 babies born with cleft lip and/or palate around the globe.
Together, we are working on finalizing the new global treatment protocols by September 2022,  as well as create the necessary clinical education infrastructure for oral health professionals around the world by the end of January 2023.
Dentsply Sirona and Smile Train are also designing online courses to educate dental professionals around the world about digital cleft care with the overarching goal of making cleft treatment safer, more efficient and easily accessible.
See p.24 for more information about Dentsply Sirona’s role within, and work with, the FDI World  Dental Federation.Dentsply Sirona partners with the FDI World  Dental Federation and Smile Train Dentsply Sirona also offers financial support for cleft surgeries, globally.
Our goal is to work with  Smile Train to provide more than basic care and develop truly best-in-class centers, treatment standards and clinical knowledge that benefit today’s patients and future generations.
Through this financial commitment, Dentsply Sirona has already supported as many as 730 children’s cleft surgeries, and many of our customers and employees have also donated to the program after seeing the impact of our partnership.
20In 2021, we also established the Dentsply Sirona International Smile Train Scholars program, which supports in-person and virtual training, and learning opportunities for Smile Train dental partners.
In September 2021, 16 scholars attended DS World to participate in clinical education events and grow their professional networks.
More than 70 courses were available, and we hosted several sessions that brought experts together to discover how our Company’s tools, products and expertise can advance the future of cleft care.
We look forward to continuing this program in 2022.
In the last year, we have worked with the following organizations to increase access to quality oral  health care treatments to those that need it the most.
20  As of June Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 41BRINGING DENTAL CARE TO  RESIDENTS OF THE AMAZON Since 2017, we have been working with doctors in the State of Amazonas to bring  much-needed dental procedures to residents who otherwise would not receive them.
Since the partnership began, we have helped provide more than 8,100 dental consultations and over 31,000 specialized procedures.
In 2021 we helped sponsor 15 days of dental service in Aldeia Tenharim, where  doctors treated 218 patients.
These procedures highlighted the use of our CAD/CAM technology, including 478 porcelain crowns and prostheses as well as 138 endodontic treatments.
In 2022 we have already completed 650 dental consultations and more than 2,000 specialized procedures.
DENTSPLY SIRONA’S  SUPPORT OF GIVE KIDS A SMILE PROGRAM Dentsply Sirona was, once again, proud to donate important dental products to the  American Dental Association’s Give Kids a Smile program in 2021, including pediatric polishing angles, children’s flavored Nupro® polishing paste, and Nupro® White Varnish.
Now in its th year, the program is on track to support over 1,000 Give Kids a Smile  events nationwide.
The events provide oral health education, and preventive and  restorative dental services to nearly 300,000 underserved children.
Approximately 8,100 dentist volunteers and 17,000 other dental team volunteers have participated in the program.
Events kick off annually on the first Friday in February, which is Give Kids a Smile  Day.
Since its inception, Give Kids a Smile has provided free oral health care services to more than 6 million underserved children.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 42DENTSPLY SIRONA AND HARVARD  UNIVERSITY’S SCHOOL OF DENTAL MEDICINE COLLABORATE TO INCREASE ACCESS TO HIGH-QUALITY ORAL HEALTH In 2021 Dentsply Sirona established a three-year partnership with Harvard University’s School of Dental Medicine  to break down barriers between oral and primary care and integrate these by convening academics, students, and leaders from the business, healthcare, and public health communities to identify and develop innovative strategies, and guide public policy for improving oral and systemic health outcomes.
Dentsply Sirona is contributing to research that explores new models of education, training and clinical practices.
SANTA FE GROUP CREATES BETTER  COMMUNITY ORAL HEALTH Another way Dentsply Sirona helps improve oral health in local communities is through our annual  contribution to the Santa Fe Group, an action-oriented think tank with a passion to improve lives through oral health.
The Santa Fe Group uses our donation to engage with communities and provide social initiatives that  promote health policy and the integration of oral and general health care delivery.
Since we have started working with them, the Santa Fe Group has helped build a 138-organization coalition that has successfully lobbied for Medicare.
Dentsply Sirona’s support has also helped the Santa Fe Group launch a program to support oral cancer diagnosis, and now quadruple the number of people receive an oral cancer exam each year.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 43SUPPORTING ACCESS TO DENTAL  CARE IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND   Dentsply Sirona’s teams in Australia and New Zealand have also partnered with charitable  organizations to increase access to high quality health care in local communities.
Dentsply Sirona has donated equipment to the Cerebral Palsy Alliance which helps build dental practices specially designed to help people suffering from this condition.
We also donated to the Royal Flying Doctor Service which operates a “Flying Doctor Dental Clinic” that provides oral health education, screening and treatment using mobile and fixed clinics for people living in small rural communities with limited access to public oral health services.
Byte, Dentsply Sirona’s doctor-directed, at-home invisible aligner company understands the power of making a positive community impact.
Byte has been active in philanthropic efforts in California’s  communities, and across the nation, through its ByteCares community giving platform.
The company has partnered with community-based organizations, youth centers, food banks and shelters, and in 2021 we distributed over 20,000 oral health kits to traditionally underserved communities.
The company also donated to TODEC, a legal center that serves  as a lifeline to immigrants and their families in California’s Inland Empire and Coachella Valley.
The donation supported TODEC’s Monarcas Luchadoras program, which educates and empowers youth leaders to build confidence and serve their local community.
Monarcas Luchadoras was among the first groups to mobilize  pandemic response efforts in the rural Eastern Coachella Valley community.
Young leaders were on the front lines assisting with outreach and translation services, which were instrumental in providing COVID-19 testing and vaccination resources to farmworkers.
Each of these organizations has a connection to the dental  industry, and Byte’s partnership gives its employees opportunities to participate in various ways that help improve oral health in the community.
SPOTLIGHT Byte’s community initiatives  Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 44Another way we drive positive impact for the communities where  we live, and work, is through employee volunteerism.
We know our people are happy and motivated when they are involved in community partnerships and volunteer opportunities, especially if the purpose of their daily work relates to those opportunities.
So, in 2022, we established the Company-wide Global Community Engagement and Giving Policy ( p.39), which is overseen by the Dentsply Sirona  Global Community Engagement Committee, outlining the guiding principles, governance processes and due diligence that we apply to all our community engagement programs.
The framework sets out the core guiding principles for all our  community engagement programs including the key processes and controls that must be employed to ensure charitable activities are carried out with appropriate due diligence and reflect the Company’s vision and values; and the governance process for Dentsply Sirona’s global community charitable giving program.
PROGRAMSOUR VOLUNTEER The framework also gives all permanent, non-hourly employees one day off per year to volunteer or participate in a community engagement event.
We believe this strengthens our community-service-oriented culture and helps us maximize our positive impact.
For example, Dentsply Sirona has been working with our longtime  community partner, TeamSmile , to offer free dental care for school  children in Charlotte, North Carolina – close to our US headquarters.
The mission of TeamSmile is to provide children in need with life- changing dental experiences through the power of sports.
In December 2021, we worked together to host an event that provided students at Martin Luther King Jr. Middle School in Charlotte with free dental care, but also the opportunity to meet players from the Carolina Panthers of the National Football League, who were there in support of the initiative.
More than 250 children received dental cleanings, including eight children who also required tooth extractions.
Several Dentsply Sirona employees took part in the event by assisting children before and after their checkups.
In all, the event provided the equivalent of US$117,832 in free dental  care.
Dentsply Sirona also made an in-kind monetary donation.
During our partnership with TeamSmile, Dentsply Sirona has provided financial support, donated equipment and consumables, and helped directly with events onsite.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 45In partnership with our customers, we develop innovative products  that enable them to give their patients the best possible treatment and care.
Investing in R&D is an essential part of being able to create new and improved solutions that can be used by clinicians to deliver optimal care.
We have been creating innovative dental solutions for more than 130 years, and we currently employ over 650 R&D professionals including scientists, engineers, and software developers.
A large part of our R&D is dedicated towards finding innovative  solutions and improved clinical outcomes for patients, while also making efficiency gains in terms of productivity and use of materials.
R&D spend increased 38.5% to $171 million in 2021 from $123 million   in 2020, representing 4.0% and 3.7% of sales, respectively.DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH AND Advancing digital dentistry is key to meeting evolving customer  needs as well as driving efficiency gains that support sustainable dentistry.
One of the most significant digital investments we have made recently is in DS Core, a cloud-based technology solution that is a collaboration between Dentsply Sirona and Google Cloud.
DS Core seamlessly integrates with devices, services and technologies in dental practices to bring improved efficiency to workflows, from diagnosis to treatment.
Google Cloud has the added benefit of using renewable energy to power its servers and works in conjunction with Google’s Carbon Sense tools to help accurately report the carbon emissions associated with Google Cloud usage.
We are in the process of verifying the energy savings and reduction in power consumption that can be made by digitalizing multiple systems through Google Cloud technology.
We have also invested in new products, last year we introduced  CEREC Tessera Advanced Lithium Disilicate (“ADL”) CAD/CAM Blocks, a new material for CAD/CAM-fabricated restorations for the anterior and posterior regions.
The ALD ceramic is characterized primarily by its robust strength and high aesthetics.
The glaze firing takes only four and a half minutes, so the entire manufacturing process is accelerated acting as an attractive option within single-visit dentistry.
In July 2021, Dentsply Sirona announced it was investing in the development of two new innovation centers, one near our headquarters   in Charlotte, North Carolina, the other in Zurich, Switzerland.
Both of   these centers complement our Innovation Centers in Bensheim, Germany and Mölndal, Sweden.
Our Bensheim Innovation Center focuses on equipment and device development as well as related software, while   our Mölndal center focuses on implantology.
The center in Zurich opened in October 2021 and drives innovation around our cloud platform and application software.
The center in Charlotte, known as our Global Innovation Center, opened in April 2022 and leads our innovative practices in Material Sciences and has offices for our North American Equipment Service & Support personnel.
This is yet another exciting example of how we are supporting and advancing our Company’s Purpose and Mission to empower millions of customers by proudly creating innovative solutions for healthy smiles.
Innovation Centers in Charlotte and Zurich  Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 46INCREASING OPPORTUNITIES  FOR STUDENTS AND GRADUATES IN THE DENTAL MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY  Dentsply Sirona believes in upskilling and empowering the next  generation of dental leaders.
That’s why we have several initiatives to support current college students and graduates who are at the beginning of their careers.
We recruit emerging talent at various institutions by building Dentsply Sirona brand recognition on campus and attracting interns and rotational hires into a variety of functions across our organization.
De ntsply Sirona has supported an apprenticeship program in  Bensheim, Germany since 1962 and a total of 1,965 apprentices and corporate students have participated in the program.
21 As of  September 2021, we were supporting 33 active trainees, three of which completed their full training in January 2022 and a further nine successfully completed their training early in June 2022.
From September 2022 we expect to welcome 16 new trainees:  7 mechatronics te c hnicians  5 industrial mechanics  1 IT specialist  3 warehouse logistics specialists   D entsply  Sirona is committed to increasing DE&I within the dental  industry and providing opportunities to encourage the next generation to consider dentistry as a career option.
Last year, we provided a US$100,000 contribution to North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University (“N.C. A&T”) to fund scholarships with the goal of encouraging more students towards science, technology, engineering and math (“STEM”) careers.
Additionally, we established a new partnership with Tuskegee University awarding scholarships  totaling US$10,000 to students in STEM or similar  degree programs.
Dentsply Sirona also continued its tradition of celebrating the next  generation of dental professionals with the 62nd annual Student Competition for Advancing Dental Research and its Application Awards (“SCADA”) program in 2021.
All US dental schools were invited to nominate a student to participate in the research competition in one of two categories: Clinical Science and Public Health Research or Basic and Translational Science.
Each student submitted an abstract for review, as well as a complete portfolio that an international panel of judges evaluated.
46 student clinicians submitted projects and six award winners  were selected.
Dentsply Sirona sponsored 12 student research competitions in 12 countries, and five of the student winners were honored during an awards program.
They hailed from Hokkaido University in Japan, Kyung Hee University in South Korea, the University of Hong Kong, Taipei Medical University, and Chiang Mai University in Thailand.
Lastly, Dentsply Sirona continues to honor excellent treatment  results by dentistry students with our Global Clinical Case Contest   (“GCCC”).
An international panel of judges selects the three best contributions towards clinically challenging case studies.
The 2021 -   2022 competition attracted 520 students from 73 dental schools.
In all, more than 5,670 students from dental schools worldwide have participated over the years.
21  As of the end of Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 47OUR CUSTOMERS SUPPORTING We believe that collaboration  with our customers is key to driving innovation in dentistry and improving sustainability throughout the industry.
Dentsply Sirona fosters close, trusted relationships with our customers so we can enable them to bring the best possible oral health and dental care to patients.
This work is central to our mission of achieving Healthy Smiles.
DENTSPLY SIRONA’S CLINICAL EDUCATION  PROGRAM IN 1,300   Live lectures1,600   Webinars7,687   CoursesCountries 281,134   Attendees55   Training Facilities,   Dental Academies   and Showrooms Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 48We do this in several ways, including a comprehensive Dentsply Sirona clinical  education program, supported by leading clinical experts and organizations, that brought nearly 300,000 oral health professionals together last year through training courses, webinars, and live lectures.
Our research found that 75% of dentists would like to learn more about  sustainability in the dental industry, and our Dentsply Sirona Academy    (“DS Academy”) leads our clinical education program by providing customers with access to innovative products and high-quality education that encourages the adoption of sustainable dentistry.
22 The DS Academy is not a place – it is  a service supported by leading clinical experts that combines a mixture of in-person and online offerings and includes an on-demand clinical education course library.
Last year, the library offered 275 courses (up from 175 in 2020).
We have 55 educational facilities in 33 countries across seven regional commercial organizations.
We are proud to be providing both experienced and young professionals  with the latest industry education, insights and expertise.
We provided 7,687 training courses through our DS Academy in 2021, with more than 281,000 people participating.
23Our academy in Charlotte, North Carolina is a multi-purpose education center that includes seven training rooms, a video-conferencing meeting room and four clinical training rooms for hands-on education.
It also includes a chairside CAD/CAM milling room, a laboratory milling room, a live-patient operatory, product showcases from Dentsply Sirona‘s 10 product groups, and a 293-person auditorium.
Dentsply Sirona Academy Charlotte   Located in Mississauga, Ontario, our new academy in Canada opened in July 2021.
The academy features an education center with a live operatory, an 80-seat auditorium, 20-seat simulation lab, an inLab showroom, three training rooms, two video conference rooms, one clinical training room for hands-on education, and a chairside CAD/CAM milling room.
The facility also includes a showroom that displays the complete Dentsply Sirona integrated experience.Dentsply Sirona Dental Academy Canada    DENTSPLY SIRONA’S PHYSICAL  EDUCATIONAL ACADEMIES  We founded the Dentsply Sirona Academy in Bensheim, Germany in 1998 and it has become  a central hub that is known for its innovative training programs and state of the art education center.
This academy offers a comprehensive, modular qualification program designed for dentists, specialist retailers and service technicians.
Dentsply Sirona Academy Bensheim 22  Dentsply Sirona’s Global Dental Industry Sustainability Study surveyed 1,325 dentists across 7 countries in 2022.
23  The total number of participants decreased in 2021 compared with 2020 because trainings were offered  e xclusively online due to the pandemic, and we saw an increase in webinars and online learning as professionals  were not able to go to their clinics.Dentsply Sirona has three academies that are home to state-of-the-art training facilities for dental  professionals who seek a comprehensive variety of clinical and technical continuing education curriculums.
The academies offer hands-on teaching, live lectures, and on-demand webinars and courses which are taught by a diverse range of internationally known experts in all fields of dentistry.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 49CUSTOMER EVENTS Sustainability  CourseOur Singapore team also hosted a series  of clinical educational events in 2021.
In March, we invited dental professionals to a special virtual event about CEREC, which is a method of creating dental restorations.
More than 200 dental professionals from across Asia attended the interactive event, which included an in-depth discussion between five renowned experts and one moderator on all aspects of the digital dental workflow and its future.
The Singapore team also hosted a three- part series Root to Crown webinar that attracted more than 120 participants.
Experts walked attendees through the key steps of this procedure, from diagnostic    protocol to techniques for clinical success.
Another course – Comprehensive  Endodontics for the General Dental Practitioner – consisted of four learning modules that equipped the 25 participants with the knowledge to overcome various challenges in endodontics.
An Advanced Anterior Restoration workshop and a Beyond the Machines Cone Beam Computed Tomography (an imaging unit that takes 3D x-rays) Diagnostic workshop were also held.
As we continue to find ways to live with  COVID-19 we are looking forward to hosting more face-to-face events that bring together experts in their field.
In 2021 we were able to host Dentsply Sirona World   (“DS World”), our annual convention widely known as the ultimate dental experience,   in Las Vegas as an in-person and virtual event – the first time the conference has been hosted in a hybrid format.
More than 7,000 in person and online participants attended and had the opportunity to network with fellow professionals, as well as access to nearly 120 expert speakers across a wide range of dental topics, individualized learning tracks on Dentsply Sirona’s latest connected technologies, and health and wellness activities.
Virtual and in-person attendees were also able to earn continuing education credits, with a total of 159.5 scheduled hours of high-quality clinical education offered across the weekend’s activities.
We hosted DS World again 2022 and launched our new Sustainability Curriculum which gives dental professionals access to interactive modules that explains why the industry needs to embed sustainable practices alongside clear practical steps for how to work more sustainably.
The curriculum will also link to third party industry materials including the FDI World Dental Federation’s Sustainability Pledge and participants can receive CE credits for completing the course.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 50Dentsply Sirona strives to create  equal opportunities for women in our Company and the broader dental industry.
We regularly engage with female experts   and speakers to improve the future of oral health, and we sponsor external initiatives that help women in dentistry increase their visibility and enrich their career opportunities.
These include:IMPROVING THE FUTURE OF  DENTISTRY BY SUPPORTING WOMENIN DENTISTRYWOMENDentsply Sirona’s Smart Integration Award recognizes female dentists and dental technicians  from around the world who work in a smartly integrated practice or lab and offer their patients excellent, modern treatment solutions.
Establishing an international network of women in dentistry is a key focus of the Smart  Integration Award.
Winners can join an exclusive training program and exchange ideas with international colleagues as part of the Smart Integration Network.
In 2021, we had applicants from almost 40 countries and celebrated 35 winners during a virtual  Awards Ceremony in November.
In all, we selected 35 winners in five categories: digital clinical workflow, smart lab dentist, innovative infection control and prevention, management of dental equipment, and digital patient communication.Smart Integration Awards Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 51Chairside Economical Restoration of Esthetic Ceramic (“CEREC”) is one of our core innovations  that continues to help drive our business forward.
We regularly offer training that gives customers the opportunity to use CEREC Primescan, CEREC Primemill and CEREC SpeedFire, firsthand, to understand and experience the workflows and products’ benefits.
What is special about this training is that Dentsply Sirona KOLs, who are experienced CEREC  users, act as trainers.
This leads to “eye-level” training where participants can talk to dentists that have successfully integrated CEREC in their daily practice.
As more women enter the dental industry, we have created a CEREC Experience organized  by female KOLs for female dentists.
This makes it possible to create collegial interaction in a women-led environment.
Participants, including KOLs, offered very positive feedback and requested more women-only trainings, which we will continue to provide.
CEREC Experience   Another successful program we have created to support women is First to 50, our Global Women Speaker Development Program.
Launched in March 2020 it is designed to offer personal development for female dentists, specialists and dental assistants by sharing speaking opportunities with them at industry events alongside structured speaker trainings for all levels   of experience.
The First to 50 name represents Dentsply Sirona’s aspirational goal to elevate the voices of  accomplished female dental professionals, as we strive to create a future for dental education that is more inclusive and representative of our collective dental community of customers, practitioners and thought leaders.
Two classes and a total of 16 women participated in First to   50 program in 2021.
We held a meeting in Madrid, Spain that featured all female speakers and 100 attendees.
In 2022, we are expanding the program from two to five cohorts.
Former and recent graduates have spoken at many events including DS World 2021 and PEERS in the UK.First to 50 – Dentsply Sirona’s Global Women  Speaker Development Program  Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 52OUR PEOPLESUPPORTINGEverything starts with our employees.
We are  committed to creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce where everyone can bring their full self to work.
Our global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  Council continuously evaluates our workforce practices to ensure we are driving meaningful and impactful change.
The Council consists of diverse employees from around the world who champion DE&I initiatives inside our Company and in the communities where we live and work.
The Council’s top priority is to increase the awareness and impact of Dentsply Sirona’s DE&I initiatives.
An important part of this is enabling our leaders to discuss and be held accountable for driving sustainable and equitable outcomes for all employees.
They are also responsible for ensuring that employees are engaged with our journey and provided with opportunities to learn and grow.DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION  Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 53RESPONSIBILITY ACTION Demonstrate our commitment to diverse   representation across the global workforceIntroduce programs that develop and source diverse talent such as building relationships with universities to create diverse and emerging talent pipelines Develop awareness to foster inclusionIncrease DE&I education for leaders, hiring managers and individual  contributors, and coach people managers to use performance  development tools to drive inclusive behaviors and practices Measure employee experience at key milestonesSeek opportunities for continuous improvement and ensure alignment with our culture Advance the efforts of the DE&I CouncilEvaluate current policies and processes to ensure they are inclusive, benchmark challenge areas and promote the establishment of and  participation in ERGS Provide opportunities to accelerate internal talentContinuously evaluate and update mentoring, sponsorship  and development programs Diversity, equity, and inclusion highlights from 2021Responsibilities of the DE&I Council We are working to close our global gender pay gap and achieve gender parity by 2025, alongside  increasing the representation of women and people of color among our senior workforce (Director or above).
Our global gender parity was 43% in 2021 and in 2020 Dentsply Sirona signed the Paradigm for Parity cross-sector diversity commitment – a coalition of more than 130 CEOs, executives, board members, founders and experts dedicated to providing women and men equal opportunity and power and achieving gender parity by 2030.
We reconfirmed our pledge in 2021.
The coalition supports and encourages members to share best practices and learn from and inspire  each other.
We have shared our Company commitment and key actions with the community via the P4P magazine and our colleague Jennifer Landgren was a 2021 Paradigm for Parity® Women on the Rise recipient.
We are making progress towards  global gender parity by 2025.
Our global gender parity was   43% in 2021 .In 2021,   28%    of our employees at the Senior  Manager and Director levels were  female.
26% of our Director and  above employees, globally, were  female and, in the US, 20% were  people of color.
Paradigm for Parity   signatory taken in 2021 with   133 other  companies .Established   7 ERGs   by Q1 2022 and participation  increased by +50% from 2020.14 DE&I council  members    (10 employees and 4 Management  Committee members)   and 12 meetings   were held in 2021.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 54Dentsply Sirona has established seven ERGs that connect  employees with similar backgrounds and interests, creating   allied groups to help build a diverse and inclusive workplace.
An ERG is a voluntary, employee-led DE&I initiative that we   as an organization support.
They help us to foster a workplace that is aligned with our DE&I values and ambition.
We increased the number of ERGs from three in 2020 to seven  in 2022, and participation has doubled from 800 participants in 2020 to over 1,700 in 2021 and more than 2,000 people are active members in 24.EMPLOYEE RESOURCE  GROUPS DS Women supports the development of female employees through allyship, mentorship, talent  development and resource sharing and is a vocal advocate for gender pay parity.DS Women BOLD connects and grows a tight-knit Black community and network of allies within Dentsply Sirona globally.
The group focuses on education, recruitment, and retention of Black employees.
BOLD (Black Organization   for Leadership & Development) DENTSPLY SIRONA’S ERGS 24  Number of participants as of the end of Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 55DS Emerging Talent is dedicated to attracting, developing and retaining early-career talent  such as employees participating in emerging talent programs, recent college graduates, and employees with less than three years of professional experience.
The group helps members establish professional relationships by providing engaging experiences, cultivating connections, and promoting personal and professional growth opportunities.
DS Emerging Talent PRIDE is our ERG for LBGTQ+ employees and embraces all sexual orientations, family arrangements, and gender identities by supporting members through continuous learning and open discussion that encourage everyone to reach their professional goals without fear of discrimination.
PRIDE DS Veterans helps active-duty service members and veterans transition to a civilian work environment, while focusing on camaraderie and solidarity for anyone to connect to past or present service.
The ERG also works with local organizations to raise awareness of career opportunities for service members.
DS Veterans Asia Pacific Group grows fellowship among the Asian-Pacific community within Dentsply Sirona and provides members the opportunity to celebrate their culture, discuss current events, and develop and advance their careers.
Asia Pacific Group DS Able serves individuals with different abilities and disabilities.
The ERG strives to make a tangible difference in the dental and healthcare community by raising awareness of the challenges differently abled employees face.
It also contributes to diverse recruiting pools for existing and open positions and ensures our Company benefits from diverse backgrounds and perspectives.
DS Able  Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 56DS WOMEN EMPLOYEE  RESOURCE GROUP We help empower our women  employees through our DS Women ERG, which is a forum of support and growth that is inclusive of all gender identities.
DS Women provides a path  for women to reach their full potential by offering channels of advocacy, talent development, resource sharing, allyship and mentorship.
It is also a support network for women as they manage professional and personal responsibilities.
The ERG plays a significant  role in helping our Company close the gender gap so that women are equally represented in senior leadership and management positions.At the end of 2021, DS Women had 654 members across   40 nations and eight regions, including over 55 members in chair or lead roles.
Global DS Women events average 200 participants.
Last year we launched a new Parent Leave Policy in the US and hosted several panel events that offered our female employees’ advice on how to promote yourself in the workplace, accelerate your career and create value for your company.
A key focus last year was to expand the group’s membership base and build regional ERG across all major business regions and we are pleased to share that as of May 2022 membership increased to 936 participants.
CONVERSATIONS OF  UNDERSTANDING Another way we engage with  our employees is through our Conversation of Understanding program, which creates an opportunity in a welcoming space for employees to listen to and learn from colleagues about DE&I topics.
The goal is to build empathy and strengthen employee connectivity while also reinforcing our healthy, inclusive workplace culture.
Small, informal groups of approximately 15-20 employees participate voluntarily in the 60-minute sessions.
A moderator and two Conversation Champions guide initial topics, then give way to 40 minutes of open dialogue among attendees.Originally piloted with our US employees in Charlotte, North Carolina in 2020, the program expanded to Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Asia Pacific and York, Pennsylvania, in 2021.
26 global sessions were held last year – an increase from 15 in 2020.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 57In our efforts to continually  improve how we source and look after our talented workforce, we updated our recruitment and talent retention strategy in 2021 by building a centrally managed talent acquisition plan focused on delivering inclusive recruiting success globally.
As a result, in 2021, 53% of global hires were female or people of color.
We also launched an automated  Talent Review process to map internal succession plans.
This included a robust toolkit, training, and education for HR and people managers to ensure that our talented, diverse workforce can successfully progress their careers at Dentsply Sirona.
In late 2021, we piloted a  new training course called “Leading Inclusively” that we subsequently expanded in May 2022.TALENT MANAGEMENT  AND EMPLOYEE TRAINING  It is designed to foster a  growth  mi ndset in leaders and help  organically develop  i nclusion  among their teams.
D uring  training sessions,  l eaders  practice ways to demonstrate  inclusion  t hrough scenarios and  robust group discussion.
Le aders identify what they can  do differently to foster  i nclusion,  learn leadership styles for diverse teams, and recognize what to stop, start, and continue doing to  b uild a strong, inclusive  culture.
We also launched a 12-month  Strategic Leadership training program for Director level and above employees, focused on application learning, 360 feedback and one-to-one coaching to equip our employees with the tools to lead themselves, others, and the future of the organization.
So far, we have worked with 20 employees through two cohorts.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 58LINKEDIN LEARNING AT DENTSPLY SIRONA: BY THE NUMBERS26OUR CULTURE OF LEARNING We actively invest in professional development opportunities  for our employees globally, because our people are central to our business, and it is our responsibility to help nurture them professionally and personally.
We provide tools and trainings like the recently launched LinkedIn Learning program and our #OwnYourJourney Development Toolkit, plus many other resources, to ensure our employees bring out the best in their careers with Dentsply Sirona.We launched LinkedIn Learning in May 2021 and it has become a popular and  convenient resource for our people.
LinkedIn Learning is an award-winning industry leader in online training, with a digital library of over 16,000 expert-led, online courses and video tutorials that cover a wide range of topics in the areas of leadership and management, functional roles, professional development, business software and technology.
Courses are offered in seven languages and available 24/7 on demand via computer or  mobile device.
Employees can stay up to date with more than 50 new courses released each week.
So far, 64% of our employees globally have used the platform.
25LinkedIn Learning 6,758   people logged in 2h 26m  average time  per view   42,470   LinkedIn Learning courses viewed 10,709   hours viewed  246,123    LinkedIn Learning videos viewed  8,671    LinkedIn Learning course completions  25  As of August 26  As of December Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessBEYOND | 59eLEARNING CENTER  OF EXCELLENCE We established an eLearning Center of Excellence in 2021 to support our product groups  and cross-commercial organization.
One of the first outcomes was the creation of our Better Learning Through Technology  sessions, which are held monthly to help share eLearning best practices around the world.
Our current focus is on creating interactive on-demand curriculums that can be hosted on DS Academy websites in each country where we do business.
In November 2021, we launched an interactive, on-demand curriculum focused on end-to- end digital implant workflow solutions, designed to help build and expand clinicians’ skills according to levels of experience.
Since the launch, more than 950 people have registered for this training and we are expanding the on-demand curriculum to include diagnosis and treatment planning, endodontics and indirect restoration.
#OWNYOURJOURNEY  DEVELOPMENT TOOLKIT Employees told us that development is a strong area of  interest for them personally and professionally – they did this via the employee engagement and pulse surveys, and we listened.
We created the #OwnYourJourney Development Toolkit,   which includes resources that support employee  development, engagement, retention, and succession  readiness.
T he toolkit enables each employee to map out  their career journey.
It asks them to set career goals for the  next one, two and three-plus years, what they need to do in order to achieve those goals and how they can go about it.2021 program highlights include:    Organized a project team that included representatives f rom a variety of Company functions, who created a  project charter.
Completed interviews with focus groups across various N orth America functions about career development  and job experiences.
Ran a pilot program with our US sales team to collect f eedback and input, then launched the toolkit within  that team.
The toolkit is now available to all employees globally.
27  As of July Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 60NEW GLOBAL  MENTORING PROGRAM In early 2022, we launched a comprehensive Global Mentoring Program that underscores  our belief in the powerful impact mentoring can have on an individual’s professional growth and development.
Participation in this program helps us develop talent, increase employee engagement  and retention, drive productivity and performance, and increase cross-organizational communication.
Participation is voluntary and any employee can be a mentor or mentee.
Volunteers create profiles of their skills, experiences and interests using our online platform  partner, Chronus.
Once profiles are completed, participants can identify potential mentors or mentees and send a request through the system.
The platform is available in seven languages and includes access to programs like Diverse Mentorships, Emerging Talent Mentorships, and Career Mentoring.
At the time of this report’s publication, more than   300 active employee members participating as potential mentors, mentees, or both.
OUR CULTURE OF EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT  We value employee feedback and regularly seek it to ensure our company culture supports safety and enables our people to do their best work and feel inspired to grow their careers.
We believe that a successful culture is not dictated from the top but built through conversations and is reinforced through continued dialogue.
In April 2021, following our employee engagement survey, we launched a comprehensive  initiative to evaluate our Company culture.
This started by selecting 40 senior leaders to take part in a Listening Tour, where they heard from more than 600 employees across various roles to understand how our employees view the current culture at Dentsply Sirona and assess whether we are creating an environment that is aligned to the aspirations of the Company.
Following the Listening Tours, we hosted a two-day Culture Summit where we  consolidated feedback and developed proposals to embed critical behaviors to support us as we shift from a product-focused company to a customer-centric inclusive organization.
Since then, we have shared a culture toolkit with all employees in 27 languages and have launched a Culture Sponsor and Ambassador Program to ensure our vision, mission and purpose, values and operating principles are being implemented throughout the business.
Our engagement and pulse surveys continue to be a valuable source for employee feedback.
We equip our people managers with post-survey resources so they can create relevant action plans with their teams.
In 2021, we successfully deployed an engagement survey to all employees with 82% participation and recognized a 17% increase in the percentage of actively engaged employees.
We also offer automated processes to support ongoing feedback, development planning, mentor/mentee matching, and self-led career pathing tools through our #OwnYourJourney initiative.
28 Gallup benchmark comparison for same time period = 19% increase Employee engagement at Dentsply Sirona increased by 31% between our first engagement survey in 2018 and our third engagement survey in 2021.
28   We witnessed YOY progress on DE&I related topics across all segments of the workforce and the 2021 survey results indicated People of Color were the most engaged workforce group.Employee recognition was the most improved category between 2019 and 2021 surveys (8% vs.2019).
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 61We also found that employees who say they are most likely to stay with Dentsply Sirona  because of our company culture do so because of our commitment to sustainability.
And, thanks to employee feedback, we are establishing a Global Sales Training Framework   to ensure our employees are equipped with the best knowledge about our sustainability initiatives.
We are in the process of finalizing the scope and various roles of the sales training organization and we expect this to take until end of Q3 2022, followed by a phased implementation approach over a two-year period.
The mental and physical wellbeing of our employees and their family is paramount to the  success of our business, and this has been amplified by the ongoing war in Ukraine and as we continue to navigate new ways of working due to the COVID-19 Pandemic.
Last year we launched our Global Employee Assistance Program  (“EAP”), a globally  accessible and free wellbeing resource for all our employees and their families through the  provider Workplace Options.
Workplace Options is staffed by professionals who are completely independent from Dentsply Sirona, making it a confidential service that can support our employees, and their loved ones, through personal or professional challenges.
Support is available every day of the year, at any hour and is easily accessible through a variety of channels and languages.
The EAP is an important enhancement of our Total Rewards strategy and is supported by our extensive site level health and safety programs as well as our Environmental Health and Safety Management System which sets out policies and global standards and provides trainings.
We are committed to ensuring that our own employees have access to the highest quality dental treatment.
By the end of Q2 2022, all our employees had access to market competitive dental benefits, either through Company-provided or a governmental statutory program, and in 2021 nearly 3,000 employees took advantage of these services.
In the US and Canada, we also provide our employees and their immediate family with a SureSmile Discount Policy which offers a reimbursement of up to US$1,500 toward the cost of SureSmile clear aligners.Dental benefits for employees Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 63We are committed to running  an ethical and transparent business, and work hard to foster trusted relationships with our employees, customers, partners and shareholders.
We strive for the highest standards of excellence throughout our operations and we are increasing transparency around our ESG reporting.
To achieve this, we engage with our stakeholders to understand the most material sustainability issues facing the business so we can take positive, long-lasting action to create a brighter world.
This is evidenced by the integration of ESG and sustainability issues  into our annual enterprise risk assessment to identify, prioritize and respond to the main risks facing the business as well as our first materiality assessment (p.13).
We use the insights  from our stakeholders to align our business practices to their priority issues and take action to ensure we deliver our mission of improving the quality and accessibility of oral health care worldwide.
Our people sit at the heart of our business, so a healthy business, to us, means integrating sustainable, inclusive, and equitable practices across all aspects of our business to create a supportive working environment.
In line with this, we have repositioned our global target of striving to achieve gender pay parity by 2025 under our Healthy Business strategy, to sit alongside our commitment to embed ESG factors across all our risk management processes.
HEALTHY   BUSINESS Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 64CORE POLICIES  We have several core policies and processes in place to ensure that we act  as an ethical and responsible business, these include the following: Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 6529 The WorldAware (Crisis24) system has been implemented globally to assist in risk identification and management, including those related to severe weather events and other climate-related risks.
Attestation for UK   Modern Slavery Act;  Ca lifornia Transparency  in Supply Chain Act;  Australian Modern Slavery  Act and New South Wales  Modern Slavery ActCorruption   and   Anti-Bribery Policy Anti-Kickback  Statute   Policy Anti-Money  Laundering   Policy Blacklist   Screening  Pr ocedure Business Gifts   and   Entertainment  Pol icyBusiness   Partner   Code of Conduct  Code of Ethics   and Business  Co nductClinical  Competition   and Contest   PolicyEthics and  Compliance  Mission and  CharterDentsply Sirona  Disciplinary  Framework   North America Hotline  Whistleblower  System Policy Insider   Trading   Policy International   Trade   Compliance   Policy  OFAC   Recusal Policy   for US Persons In vestigation   and   Case Resolution  Pr otocol Records   Retention   Policy US Grant   Policy Dentsply Sirona  Data Privacy Policy Dentsply Sirona  Internal and  External Privacy  Statements WorldAware  (Crisis24)   systemOur Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 66The health, safety, and wellbeing of all our  employees always remains our top priority.
It is a core value and principle to our culture at Dentsply Sirona.
The ongoing war in Ukraine and the impact of COVID-19 has  amplified the importance of the actions we take to keep our employees safe and well.
The Corporate Crisis Management Team is instrumental in maintaining contact and providing ongoing support to our employees impacted by the war in Ukraine.
We have helped, and will continue to help, our employees and their  families move from high-risk areas within Ukraine to alternative lower risk areas within Ukraine or to safe locations outside the country.
Prior to the onset of the war in Ukraine, and as with all countries we operate in, we conducted regular communication with our team members to ensure they had support from Health & Safety, Human Resources and Legal resources, and we continue to do so.CREATING A HEALTHY BUSINESS  FOR OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE HEALTH,  SAFETY AND WELLBEING To help keep in touch and communicate with our employees in Ukraine we set up  the Crisis24 app.
The app is designed to support Traveler Duty of Care by helping those moving across or leaving the country identify travel risks and provide mitigation strategies.
The app has an emergency function that contacts the   24-hour crisis desk where employees can either check in to indicate they are well, relay their location electronically or request to speak to a Crisis Management Team member.
The app has been and continues to be a critical tool for our Ukrainian employees, and many continue to report their wellbeing via the app on a daily basis.
We hope to make this app accessible to those beyond Ukraine in the near future.
Crisis24 app As a Company we donated US$100,000, equally split between the Ukrainian Red Cross and the Polish Red Cross, to help support refugees fleeing the war.
In addition to this, we are immensely proud of how our employees around the world responded to the crisis and offered support to their colleagues.
Our corporate donation efforts were supported by an employee-to-employee fundraiser which raised more than €40,000 to support fellow employees and their families in Ukraine as they continue to navigate these challenging times.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 67ON SITE HEALTH AND   SAFETY PROGRAMS In 2021, we expanded our site  level health and safety programs and launched our corporate level EHS standards that align with recognized management system frameworks.
Last year all our manufacturing  sites implemented the first wave of the EHS standards, including Control of Hazardous Energy, Machine Safety, Safe Work Permits, Elevated Work, Knife and Cutting Tool Safety, and Regulatory Inspections & Communication.
These standards help control health and safety  We implemented the Humantech ergonomic solution at   seven sites, a cutting-edge ergonomic analysis tool that uses digital observation and artificial intelligence to characterize ergonomic risk.
Employees can use a smartphone to record their activities in the  workplace and load it to the Humantech solutions platform.
The Humantech tool conducts a risk assessment by evaluating the individual’s posture and force of movement of the recorded task, as well as the duration and frequency of the activity.
The platform identifies the body‘s risk exposure and suggests corrective and mitigation measures for the team to implement.
The Humantech tool significantly reduces the time required to  perform an ergonomic risk assessment while achieving greater accuracy than a manual assessment.
Since using the tool the number of ergonomic injuries has decreased from 36 in 2019 to four in 2022; an 89% reduction.
30   HUMANTECH  SOLUTIONS TACKLES ERGONOMIC INJURIES  WORLDWIDE 30  As of August 2022risks, and we are planning to roll  out the next wave of standards in H2 2022.
These will include standards that support Product Stewardship and Sustainability in addition to further health and safety measures.
To further improve our EHS  performance, in Q1 2022 we worked with our sites to improve the causal analysis process to identify human factors that contribute to injuries, and we are making improvements to reduce the likelihood of future injury.
The implementation of our Knife and Cutting Tool Safety standard has supported a reduction in lacerations from 24 in 2019 to three in 2022; an 88% reduction.
Our sites globally have engaged in awareness and hazard control campaigns to reduce injuries caused by slips, trips, and falls, resulting in a reduction in this type of injury from 49 in 2019 to 11 in 2022; a 78% reduction.
30   We have also focused on reducing incidents associated with the Line of Fire hazard via our EHS Frontline Leadership training.
The uptake of solutions and techniques from the training has led to a reduction of injuries resulting from the Line of Fire hazard from 35 in 2019 to four in 2022; an 89% reduction.
30HIGH FREQUENCY INJURY REDUCTION Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 68In 2021, the Smile Way team at our facility in York, Pennsylvania,  established a Train the Trainer program to help leaders and their direct reports have more effective communications around safety and employee wellbeing.
The establishment of daily safety conversations as part of the program has helped build trust, respect, and accountability and is designed to mitigate future injuries with preventive actions.
Job rotation, execution of process per standard operating procedures and ergonomic improvements have been three focus areas of the program.
Smile Way also installed iPads throughout the York production  floor so employees can suggest opportunities for safety improvements in real time.
The program has been an overall success: “near miss” incident reporting has increased, as has first aid reporting which includes employee knowledge of what types of first aid incidents must be reported.
And, thanks to Train the Trainer, Smile Way leaders now make over 2,000 contact points with employees on key safety matters each month.TRAIN THE TRAINER PENNSYLVANIA The leadership team at our site in Johnson City completed EHS  Frontline Leadership Training in May 2021, to ensure that our leaders are equipped with the tools to establish trusted and strong relationships with their employees.
As part of the program, our on-site leadership team doubled down on the commitment to empower employees by increasing daily engagement touch points and strengthening the culture of loyalty by making feedback easy and effective.
The team has replaced monthly performance meetings with employee-owned meetings where employees can raise any topic for discussion.
Our Senior Operation Manager also meets with small groups on all shifts twice a week with no agenda.
Anything can be asked and/or discussed, nothing is off the table, and we never say “yes, but” when approached with a new suggestion, instead we commit to following up on any suggestion or topic.
These actions are increasing employee engagement with the leadership team creating a culture of trust.
FRONTLINE LEADERSHIP  TRAINING  JOHNSON CITY  Overall, our global annual  recordable injury rate in 2021 was 0.56, remaining relatively consistent versus 0.53 during 2020.
Our current injury rate in 2022 is 0.41; a 27% reduction versus 2021 and 55% reduction versus 2019.
31 All data is  characterized in accordance with US Occupational Safety and Health Administration [OSHA] criteria.
31  As of August Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 69In June 2022, our Hanau site in Germany was shortlisted as one of the top  10 factories for Safety Performance and Best Practices for occupational safety by the Employer’s Liability Insurance Association of Raw Materials and Chemical Industry (“BG RCI”).
The top five sites will be selected to become part of the training program for BG RCI to refer to as best practice.
We are proud of the work we have achieved so far and hope to share more positive news in the coming months.
HANAU SITE IDENTIFIED  IN TOP 10 FACTORIES FOR SAFETY PERFORMANCE GERMANY Our Level Up Ideas program, created by our Director of Operational Excellence, is also designed  to engage and empower our employees by providing a platform for employees to organically communicate their ideas whenever they come up.
To spark ideas, leadership teams will speak with employees on the production floor twice a week to find out how their colleagues are and if there is anything leadership can do to make their jobs easier.
Employee ideas, suggestions, and concerns are immediately uploaded into the Level-Up program to begin the investigation process.
The employee is always included in the development of the ideas they submit, and on average each employee has suggested at least two ideas since we started the program.LEVEL UP PROGRAM WORLDWIDE Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 70GLOBAL GENDER  PAY PARITY Last year we set a global gender  pay parity target for 2025.
Since then, we have conducted a global review across all internal professional managerial levels to understand whether women, on average, were paid the same as their male counterparts for the same roles.
We are pleased to share that our global gender pay gap across these two levels has decreased from 5% in July 2021 to 1.3% in July 2022.
In the last year we have  implemented a revised integrated global compensation structure that, in combination with our talent management strategies, allows the organization to measure our equity pay practices.
As a next step, we are developing a global job catalogue to ensure we accurately and consistently calculate salaries for all new hires, promotions, and job changes.
We are proud of the progress we have made so far with this group, and we are in the process of implementing a new strategy to address our pay parity beyond this level, focusing on our non-desk teams first.
This includes doubling down on coaching and education offered to all people managers in the lead up to annual compensation cycle.
This will reinforce our pay for performance philosophies, help reduce existing pay gaps and prevent future inequities against internal peers and the external market.
In addition, we are also in the process of establishing in-depth data verification frameworks that will enable us to collect and track all our pay parity data.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 71As the world‘s largest  manufacturer of professional dental products and technologies we are proud to be a preferred partner for dental practices, clinics, dental laboratories, and authorized distributors worldwide.
Our responsible business  practices are overseen by our Ethics and Compliance  Committee .
The committee is  led by our Chief Compliance Officer and the committee is charged with proactively implementing risk assessments to anticipate and mitigate potential business issues and ensure ethics are embedded throughout the Company.
The actions of the committee ensures that the Company direction is in line with our sustainability goals, and also sets behavioral expectations for all our employees, partners and industry consultants.This is supported by our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which we review annually.
The Code sets out the conduct of business principles that all those that work for, or with, Dentsply Sirona must follow.
This Code demonstrates our commitment to conducting our business with integrity and the importance of making sound ethical decisions that lead to positive action and quality healthcare solutions for our customers.
ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCTOUR PROCESSES We have numerous policies and  procedures that support our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, such as:  Ethical customer interaction policy  Gift and Entertainment Policy  Global Key Opinion leader Policy  Anti-Kickback Policy  Corruption and Anti-bribery Policy  Ethics and Compliance Hotline D entsply Sirona incurred $0 monetary losses  as a result of legal proceedings associated with  corruption and bribery in 2021.Our Code aligns with our core values to be agile, accountable, respectful, collaborative and trustworthy, and outlines a clear pathway for all people to identify, mitigate and manage a wide range of risk factors.
Supervisors and managers are responsible for ensuring their teams comply with the Code, and all employees are responsible for ensuring they can recognize potential compliance issues and seek the appropriate advice from subject matter experts regarding any issues.We also provide our employees access to our Ethics and Compliance hotline, which enables employees and third parties to report malpractice, unlawful or unethical behavior within the workplace without having to report it directly to their manager, senior manager or HR.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 72We regularly run the following trainings:  Anti-Corruption & Anti-Bribery  Export Compliance   Confidential Information & Insider Trading   Anti-Trust & Competition Law  Privacy & Data Protection  Third Party ComplianceW e remain committed to our  Ethical Customer Interaction  Policy which requires that all interactions with medical and dental professionals are compliant with applicable laws and regulations and our Company values and operating principles.
We mandate regular training  on this policy to all employees who interact with healthcare professionals, including our entire sales and marketing teams, Clinical Affairs and professional services, R&D and finance management teams.
This equips them with the tools to act responsibly and ethically with healthcare professionals or organizations.
The training is based on  the ADVAMED Code, which formed the foundation of the Ethical Customer Interaction Policy and includes specific guidance on adhering to the US Anti-Kickback Statute, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act (Open Payments), and other transparency laws worldwide.We have an equivalent code of conduct for our business partners – Our Business Partner Code of Conduct – which sets out our expectations for all business partners including distributors, consultants and suppliers.
Dentsply Sirona also takes supply continuity stewardship seriously, as we recognize that a lack of products to fulfil dental practices’ needs could result in unmet healthcare needs.
This Code ensures that all parties are aligned to Dentsply Sirona’s values and understand the importance of conducting business in an ethical and lawful manner.
We also provide risk monitoring for all our suppliers, using multiple business intelligence data sources combined with in-depth analyses of our critical material purchases.
We have established a regular cadence of due diligence supplier risk mitigation meetings alongside benchmarking and surveys.
Additionally, we provide comprehensive deep dives into our most critical suppliers’ business continuity plans to identify risk areas.
When a potential risk is identified, due diligence is conducted, and an action plan is put in place and monitored until the risk assessment is satisfactorily closed.
These actions may include finding an alternate supplier, product part or materials; building safety stock; establishing new commercial terms; requiring equipment or line redundancy; or finding additional manufacturing locations or processes.Whereas our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is administered annually to every Dentsply Sirona employee, the trainings listed above are administered to a sub-set of employees based on their job function and likelihood of being impacted by these matters.
In 2021 we once again did not  incur any monetary losses due to legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims.
ETHICAL CUSTOMER  INTERACTION BUSINESS PARTNER CODE OF CONDUCT We evaluate a subgroup of our suppliers each year.
Our overall approach is divided into four steps: 1.
Supplier selection: W e screen suppliers based on multiple factors and conduct an in-depth risk assessment as  appropriate for the specific supplier, type of engagement, and potential depth of the relationship.
Our initial  questionnaire will discuss topics such as financial sustainability, information security, data privacy, social and ethical criteria, and global trade compliance.
2.
Supplier monitoring:  Approved suppliers are tiered by importance to the business and risk and are monitored  accordingly.
We will monitor suppliers based on their performance, product or service quality, as well as risk factors such as financial, geopolitical, trade compliance, and ESG.
3.
Supplier business c ontinuity planning: To assure continuity for our customers, we select up to 30 suppliers  per year to complete an in-depth, collaborative assessment of the suppliers’ business continuity planning.
This process starts with a questionnaire that gathers information regarding their business systems and   preparedness to manage unforeseen events, including process-related, tier-two and tier-three supply risks,   facility-related, natural or geopolitical disasters, pandemic, information security, and other IT disasters.
We then work with the supplier to conduct an in-depth risk assessment and develop action plans to mitigate risks.
4.
On-site as sessment: Following the risk assessment, Dentsply Sirona may request an on-site assessment to  confirm findings.
Once this is complete all suppliers will receive their Responsible Procurement feedback report and any recommendations for improvement.
New suppliers are made aware of this policy, and their obligation to comply with it, as part of Dentsply Sirona’s General Terms and conditions of purchase.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 73CYBER SECURITY As an agile Company, we are  continuously updating our cyber security processes and protocols relating to our owned enterprises systems to respond to the ever-evolving technology landscape and mitigate any risks posed by cyber security incidents and cyber-attacks.
Our internal cyber security  program is led by Dentsply Sirona’s Chief Information Officer and Director of Security, and they are responsible for providing the Board and the Audit and Finance Committee with regular updates on the status of our cyber security control projects.
The Board and the Audit and Finance Committee oversee the management of all cyber security risk at Dentsply Sirona.
Our program is designed to  protect the confidentiality, integrity, and continued availability of our data and systems, and ensure continuous compliance with all external regulatory requirements HUMAN RIGHTS People are central to our business, so we operate in line with the UN International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We strongly support freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced or compulsory labor, the abolition of child labor and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment.
We take an active global approach to eliminate any issues surrounding exploitation, slavery, and human trafficking through internal policies as well as through direct actions with business partners in our supply chain.
These policies include our Business Partner Code of Conduct.
We expect all employees and business  related to data privacy and security.
Different elements of the program are evaluated annually by multiple third-party information security firms and our processes, policies and controls are adjusted as needed.
Our Privacy Policy outlines the   types of personal data we collect,   the legal grounds for doing so,   and how it is used and protected.
All our policies and standards  align with cyber control frameworks ISO27001, COBIT and NIST.
All global IT staff and contractors are trained annually on our cyber policies as are all internal system users on information security.
Additionally, all global users receive continual anti-phishing assessments and training.partners to fully comply with the California Transparency in Supply Chain Act of 2010 and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015, the Australian Modern Slavery Act, the New South Wales Modern Slavery Act, the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act and the Conflict Minerals provisions of the US Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 74PRODUCT SAFETYIn 2021 we obtained five 510K clearances – A 510K is a premarketing  submission made to the FDA to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is safe and effective, or substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device that is not subject to premarket approval.
We now have more than 420 devices with 510K clearance, and we align with the Federal Trade Commission’s requirements to ensure that all claims labelled on our devices, as well as associated promotion and advertising materials, are not misleading and can be substantiated.
PRODUCT RECALLS  In 2021, we voluntarily conducted five field actions.
The actions were related to the INTEGO Dental Treatment  Center seat breakage, Friadent Esthetic Base Abutments with incorrect screws, Atlantis Titanium Abutments with incorrect dimensions, Teneo Treatment Centers with loose pins, and OsseoSpeed Astra Tech Implant System TX with incorrect product and excessive information on the label.
Our Product Safety Program includes the following:   A Complaints Management program that collects, monitors and investigates product complaints  A Post-Market Surveillance Process, per product group, to ensure compliance with applicable PMS  r equirements  A Risk Management program that covers design, manufacturing, and post-market surveillance  A product testing program used throughout the lifecycle of the product including design, validation and v erification, in-process and finished product testing   A Quality Management System bespoke to each manufacturing entity, which governs safety, quality and co mpliance   A Quality Management System-related training program where personnel involved in R&D, manufacturing a nd quality control are trained to carry out their responsibilitiesCERTIFICATIONS List of products listed in the FDA’s  MedWatch Safety Alerts for   Human Medical Products database   [HC-MS-250a.2]Zero cases were reported in Fatalities related to products as   reported in the FDA Manufacturer   and User Facility Device Experience   database (#) [HC-MS-250a.3]Zero fatalities in 2021.
FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current   Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type (#)   [HC-MS-250a.4]Zero enforcement actions.
FDA observations resulting from   facility inspections (#)Zero observations were received.
Sites Certified to ISO 13485/9001: 36   Sites Certified to MDD: 27   Sites Certified to MDR: 15  Our facilities are certified as appropriate to ISO 13485,  EU Medical Device Directive (“MDD”), EU Medical Device Regulation (“MDR”), Medical Device Single Audit Program (“MDSAP”), and we comply with FDA QSR 820 as well as other country-specific regulatory requirements: Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 75POLITICAL  INVOLVEMENT Dentsply Sirona’s policy clearly  states that no Company funds or other Company assets may be contributed for political purposes without the prior review and consent of our General Counsel.
We believe that telehealth and/or teledentistry will be a prominent topic in state legislatures, which has the potential to affect Byte’s business model.
As a result, Byte has a government affairs team that leads its engagement in the legislative and regulatory process at all levels of government to advance responsible policies that are aligned with Byte’s mission to increase access to oral health care.
Byte’s participation in the policymaking process is guided by Dentsply Sirona’s core values and in compliance with applicable laws that require reporting on lobbying and related activities.
In 2021, Byte made $115,000 in political contributions to promote the interests of the Company and support policies that provide customers access to safe and  ACCESS &  AFFORDABILITY Our mission is to improve lives  around the world and create healthy smiles, and a crucial part of this is increasing access to affordable high quality oral health care to those that need it most.
Therefore, we use a lower price list for our established product lines in low-income and lower-middle-income countries compared with developed markets.
In line with our commitment  to conducting business transparently, we update all our customers and distributors about new price information electronically six to eight weeks in advance of the change.
Changes include a new price book or an amendment to contracts and each customer will receive an individual price list.
Overall our ratio of weighted  average rate of net price increases for our products to the annual increase in the US Consumer Price Index during 2021 was 2.5% : 7.0%.At Dentsply Sirona, we develop and license many new and innovative dental products and solutions, and whenever possible we aim to use in-vitro or benchtop methods that do not require animal testing.
We are constantly seeking to  create inclusive and accessible products and utilize data from human clinical tests to help achieve this goal.
Whenever we do this, we always conduct our studies with their safety front of mind and protect the rights and confidentiality of patients and investigators.
We comply with all local and regional regulatory requirements where the studies are conducted and ensure that the correct controls are in place to protect the integrity of the results of the study.
PRE-CLINICAL &  CLINICAL TESTINGaffordable options for oral health  care.
Dentsply Sirona is a member  of several US dental trade associations including the Dental Trade Alliance (“DTA”).
The DTA provides dental equipment, supplies, materials and services to dentists and other oral care professionals and may, occasionally, engage in lobbying regarding legislation that is of interest to its members.
Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 76REPORT INDICESAPPENDIXSASB INDEXSASB CODE METRIC PAGE/COMMENT  ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY HC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all products)  to the annual increase in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexHC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each product is disclosed   to customers or to their agentsPRODUCT SAFETY  HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human  Medical Products database HC-MS-250a.3 Fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and  User Facility Device Experience database (#) HC-MS-250a.4 FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current  Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type (#) ETHICAL MARKETING  HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings  associated with false marketing claims ($) HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use   of products PRODUCT LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT  HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human  health considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet  demand for sustainable products HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for take-back and reused, recycled,  or donated, broken down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) supplies SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT  HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier 1 suppliers’ facilities  participating in party audit programs for manufacturing and product quality 73, HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the   distribution chain– HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of  critical materials BUSINESS ETHICS  HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings  associated with bribery or corruption HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care  professionals Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 77TCFD INDEX TCFD RECOMMENDATION PAGE/REFERENCE  GOVERNANCE  Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
a)   Describe the Board’ s oversight of climate-related risks and  opportunities CDP C1.1CDP C1.1aCDP C1.1bCDP C1.1d b)   Describe management’ s role in assessing and managing  climate-related risks and opportunities CDP C1.2CDP C1.2a CDP C1.3  STRATEGY Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.a)   Describe the climat e-related risks and opportunities the  organization has identified over the short, medium, and long termCDP C2.1aCDP C2.1bCDP C2.3CDP C2.3aCDP C2.4CDP C2.4a b)   Describe the impact of climat e-related risks and   opportunities on the organization’s businesses,  strategy, and financial planningCDP C3.3CDP C3.c)   Describe the resilienc e of the organization’s strategy, taking  into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.CDP C3.RISK MANAGEMENT Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risksa)   Describe the organiza tion’s processes for identifying and  assessing climate-related risks CDP C2.1CDP C2.2CDP C2.2a b)   Describe the organiza tion’s processes for managing   climate-related risks CDP C2.1CDP C2.2CDP C2.2a c)   Describe how pr ocesses for identifying, assessing, and   managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management CDP C2.1CDP C2.METRICS AND TARGETS Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.
a)   Disclose the metrics used by the or ganization to assess   climate related risks and opportunities in line with its  strategy and risk management process21 - b)   Disclose Scope 1, Sc ope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks21 - c)  Describe the targets used b y the organization to manage  climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets21 - FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS All statements in this report that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute “forward-looking statements.” These statements represent current  expectations and beliefs, and no assurance can be given that the results described in such statements will be achieved.
Such statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in such statements, many of which are outside of our control.
Furthermore, many of these risks and uncertainties are currently amplified by and may continue to be amplified by or may, in the future, be amplified by, the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic and the impact of varying private and governmental responses that affect our customers, employees, vendors and the economies and communities where they operate.
For a written description of these factors, see the section titled “Risk Factors” in Dentsply Sirona’s Amendment No. 1 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 and any updating information in subsequent SEC filings including the Company‘s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ending March 31, 2022, June 30, 2022, and September 20, 2022, respectively.
No assurance can be given that any expectation, belief, goal or plan set forth in any forward-looking statement can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements which speak only as of the date they are made.
We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date of this presentation or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Dentsply Sirona  Sustainability Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to sustainability Ӏ Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND | 78CONTACT DETAILS  Dentsply Sirona Global Headquarters   13320-B, Ballantyne Corporate Pl   Charlotte, NC 28277   USA Email: Corporate.Communications@dentsplysirona.com This report is printed on FSC certified paper, made from 100% post-consumer reclaimed materials.
The CO2 footprint of this report has been off-set by a contribution to the VCS-certified Deutschland plus  Black Forest project by natureOffice.
ID-Nr .
22124463TAKING  ACTION FOR A BRIGHTER WORLD Dentsply Sirona  Sustainability