TAKING  ACTION FOR  A BRIGHTER  WORLD SUSTAI NABILITY REPORT | 2020CONTENTOUR BUSINESS COVID-19 RESPONSE HEALTHY PLANET HEALTHY SMILES HEALTHY BUSINESS APPENDIX OUR APPROACH TO MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY BEYOND Ӏ 2Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessBEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND Ӏ 3LETTER FROM THE CEOI hope this letter finds you and your families safe and healthy.
The  global pandemic that dominated 2020 challenged all of us in a truly  unprecedented way.
I am very proud of how Dentsply Sirona1   navigated the constantly evolving situation — our response  underscored the resilience of our Company and its employees.
As it  became evident that COVID-19 was going to have a profound impact  on the dental market, the Executive Management Team and Board  together formalized a response that prioritized our employee safety,  customer support, and the financial health of the Company.
Thanks to  our investment in digitization over the past few years, we were able to  quickly transition our employees to remote working in order to ensure  seamless customer service as well as offer digital education.
Every day, we empower millions  of customers by proudly   creating innovative solutions   for healthy smiles.
At the heart of our business is the creation of innovative products  and integrated solutions that transform dentistry to improve oral  health globally.
We work every single day to exceed expectations —  those of our customers, our employees, our shareholders, and the  communities in which we live and work.
Over the last year, the challenges brought on by the  pandemic have been seen and felt across a broad  spectrum of areas, bridging health, business and society.
The world as we once knew it has changed dramatically,  with the impacts from the pandemic likely to reshape how  individuals and companies look at the world.
Don Casey, CEO  FUTURE FOCUS  As critically important as our response to the COVID-19 crisis was,  it was equally important that we keep a firm focus on how to enable  Dentsply Sirona to thrive going forward.
We made significant strides  within major strategic initiatives focused on accelerating growth,  improving our margins, and simplifying the Company structure —  including our manufacturing footprint, where we have reduced our  manufacturing sites from 42 to 29 over the last three years.
We also  completed a number of strategic acquisitions including Byte,   a high-growth direct-to-consumer clear aligner company, and Datum  Dental, a biomaterials company focused on bone regeneration.
In addition, we continued to innovate successfully launching   a number of new products such as Axeos, Schick AE sensor, Surefil  One, and Primemill.
All of this gives Dentsply Sirona scale in critical,  fast-growing segments and enables us to accelerate growth and  deliver against our key priorities.
As I reflect on all that we faced in 2020, I am reminded more than  ever of the importance of remaining anchored in our purpose .
ABOUT THIS REPORT  Attesting to this commitment, we are excited to publish our inaugural  Sustainability Report “ Beyond — Taking Action for A Brighter World ”,   which outlines our sustainability strategy and ambitions, and discloses  our sustainability performance in 2020.
This strategy builds on   our established Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) platform,  that provides a strong foundation on which to become sustainability  leaders in the industry.
Video DENTSPLY SIRONA Inc.1  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessLETTER FROM THE CEOOur sustainability ambition is woven into the fabric of who we  are, how we operate as a business and our commitment to our  employees, customers, partners and communities in which we  operate.
We believe that sustainable business practices are an  essential responsibility of being a global enterprise and vital for us to  continue delivering value to all our stakeholders.
They also offer us  opportunities to bring our mission and purpose to life.
Over the course of 2020, we made strong progress in laying   the foundation for our sustainability strategy — driven by our cross- functional Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Committee,  led by our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Jorge Gomez.
While we’ve  made tremendous progress already, there is a lot of work ahead   of us.
MOVING BEYOND  As we emerge from the pandemic and look to the future, our   five key operating principles will guide us to ensure we remain part   of the solution:  Building on our corporate responsibility strategy, we are  implementing these principles with renewed focus through   our sustainability strategy, supported by three pillars of action —   Healthy Planet, Healthy Smiles, H ealthy B usiness .
This strategy will  maintain the momentum we have created, hold us accountable, and  drive tangible, long-lasting, positive change.
If there is one lesson that I believe we will take away from 2020,  it is knowing the meaningful impact we can make when we work  collaboratively to achieve our purpose.
I have been inspired by  the resilience showed by our entire global team.
While there will  undoubtedly be challenges to navigate in the future, we are   in a strong position to confront them, and I look forward to entering  this new chapter with renewed focus and ambition.
Don Casey, Chief Executive Officer  We approach customers as ONE  Company and they are core   to everything we do.
We create innovative solutions  that customers love to use.
We think and act with positive  intent and the highest integrity.
We operate sustainably   in everything we do.
We use our size and global  breadth to our advantage.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessLETTER FROM THE ESG  COMMITTEE LEADERSHIP  We want to be transparent about our progress by continually  measuring and analyzing our ESG data, and improving our disclosures  on key ESG metrics.
Importantly, we strive to adhere to the highest  standards of data integrity through third-party validation.As we publish our inaugural sustainability  report, for 2020, the world is emerging  from one of the most significant periods  of upheaval in recent history.
COVID-19  transformed businesses and societies  around the world, accelerating the need  to take action on critical global issues.
This shift is why, in 2020, we decided  to accelerate our sustainability program,  laying the groundwork for our new strategy.
The foundation of our sustainability ambition  is what we are most  passionate about: improving oral health around the world, protecting  the environment, being a trustworthy corporate citizen and fostering   a diverse and inclusive environment within our workplace and society.
We have increased our involvement in global strategic programs for  increased impact, improved our transparency as a business through  comprehensive sustainability disclosures, and taken action within   all three verticals of ESG: environment, social, governance.
As part of  our ongoing engagement and feedback process with stakeholders,  we will be conducting a full materiality assessment in Q1 2022.2020 was a transformative year — one that underscored   the need for companies to take action on the environmental,  social and economic issues that are shaping the world in  which we live.
We are excited to introduce our first-ever  sustainability report outlining Dentsply Sirona’s own vision  for a sustainable future.
Jorge Gomez, Chief Financial Officer As a global leader in oral health, our responsibilities  extend beyond our employees, customers, communities  and patients — we must include the planet.
We want to be  environmental stewards, protecting the planet for future  generations and setting the agenda for others to follow  through ambitious yet reliable commitments, knowledge- sharing, and industry-leading partnerships.
Dan Key, Chief Supply Chain Officer  A core part of our strategy is focused on minimizing the impact   of our global operations on the environments and ecosystems   in which we operate.
We believe environmental stewardship is critical  for us to achieve our business objectives and safeguard our planet  for generations to come.
We are making significant progress   in this area:  Setting sustainability goals that support our vision; Establishing a baseline for greenhouse (GHG) emissions;  Submitting our first comprehensive carbon disclosure rating  report to CDP; Publishing our first Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board (SASB) — aligned Sustainability Factsheet  reflecting  2018 to 2020 data and metrics, as well as our Environmental  Scorecard ; Publishing this inaugural Taskforce for Climate-related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD)-aligned Sustainability Report.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessWe see diversity at Dentsply Sirona as a great source of  strength and are committed to ensure that our business  fosters diversity, equity and inclusion.
Moreover we want  to create a work environment where employees feel  empowered, motivated and excited.
Lisa Yankie, Chief Human Resources Officer Customer centricity is core to our mission.
Through  a unified, partnership-led approach, we collaborate  seamlessly with them to leave a long-lasting positive  impact on communities, and invite them on our journey  towards a sustainable future for dentistry.
Walter Petersohn, Senior Vice President,   Chief Commercial Officer Diversity is something we view as a great source of strength.
We have made strong progress in our pledge to fostering  diversity and being a welcoming and inclusive employer.
In 2020,  we communicated our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Strategy and  Action Plan, established a global D&I Council comprised of diverse  employees from different geographies and teams responsible for  evaluating existing policies, and championed initiatives that support  the Company internally and externally.
We also created Employee  Resource Groups (ERGs) to help cascade our strategy throughout  the entire organization, continued our global engagement survey  and launched a D&I survey in the U.S. to allow our employees to be  heard on these critical issues that impact us all.
Our focus also remains on ensuring our efforts extend beyond   our employees, into the services we provide to our customers.
Our scale imparts on us a responsibility to think and act with the  highest integrity as we work to transform dentistry and improve oral  health globally.
We work with strategic partners to help drive this  positive impact.
In 2020 we built on this by preparing to launch   a five-year signature charitable partnership in 2021 with Smile Train,   a renowned global Non-Governmental Organization (NGO),   to improve access to high quality and safe oral care ( p.62), and  in 2021 we launched a partnership with the FDI World Dental  Federation ( p.17) to advance sustainability in dentistry, from patients  to practitioners, alongside GSK Consumer Healthcare, Procter &  Gamble, Colgate and TePe. We are proud of the progress we are making and recognize that the  path to becoming sustainability leaders in our industry requires long- term commitment and meaningful action.
In collaboration with our  partners, customers, and suppliers, we will continue making   a positive impact on the world we live in — enabling Healthy Smiles,   a Healthy  Planet, and a Healthy Business.
Jorge Gomez, Chief Financial Officer  Lisa Yankie, Chief Human Resources Officer Dan Key, Chief Supply Chain Officer  Walter Petersohn, Chief Commercial Officer  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessBUSINESS OVERVIEWDentsply Sirona is the world’s largest manufacturer   of professional dental products and technologies.
Together   with our partners, we empower dental professionals all over   the world to provide millions of patients2 with best-in-class  dental care and deliver healthy smiles.
We are on a journey  to transform dentistry to improve oral health globally and are  proud to be a preferred partner for dental practices, clinics,  dental laboratories and authorized distributors worldwide.
OUR COMPANY For our Byte division, patients are also defined as customersBroadest portfolio  in the global dental  technologies,  equipment and  consumables market2019 sales  revenue$4 B 2020 sales  revenue$3.3 Bdental company   by global sales #Member   of   S&P 500® Clinicians   trained on robust  clinical education  platform in 2020>1MSales  countries>>40 ~15,R&D professionals (including scientists,  engineers, and software developers)>650employees locationsSubsidiaries, including  four new acquisitions:  Byte, Datum, Cyfex and  Propelmarketing, G&A and   other employees~3,sales and service employees~4,manufacturing and   supply chain employees~5,BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessOUR 2020 SUSTAINABILITY  HIGHLIGHTS HEALTHY  BUSINESS  HIGHLIGHTS 50% of Board members are gender and/or ethnically diverse, with average tenure of 5 yearsBoard held 10 executive meetings and calls in 202091% of Board is independent (all except Chief Executive Offi  cer)60% of Board committees chaired by women In 2020, we had $0 of monetary losses   as a result of legal proceedings associated   with corruption and bribery 1,029,Dental professionals  trained in 2020>$10 M Provided in cash and in-kind  donations to philanthropic and  community initiatives7,Clinical education and training  courses conducted in 80 countriesHEALTHY  SMILES   HIGHLIGHTSHEALTHY   PLANET   HIGHLIGHTS Established a baseline for  Scopes 1 and 2 greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions, and have  implemented a range of on-site  emissions reduction initiatives 6% YOY decrease in total waste  (solid and hazardous)   per measure of net sales,   and set out to reduce total  waste ≥15% by 2025Set out to reduce Scopes 1 and  2 GHG Emissions Reduction   ≥ 15% by 2025, and to achieve  net zero carbon emissions  (scopes 1-3) by 2050Established a goal to  reduce water withdrawal for  manufacturing/warehouse  operations by ≥ 15% by BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessMore than 130 years of innovation that has helped   transform dentistry and improve oral health globally:INNOVATIONS Invented CEREC over   30 years ago — a landmark  breakthrough in the  digitization of dentistry and  single-visit dentistryIntroduced first   dental X-ray unit Pioneered ultrasonic scaling,  improving ergonomics and  wrist fatigueEstablished the gold  standard mechanized  endodontic files with  continued improvements   in cutting efficiency   and reducing risk of   cross-contaminationDeveloped DAC Universal  for simple, cost-effective  processing, to reduce waste  & hygiene risks, and enable  better prevention and  infection controlEmploy more than 650 R&D  professionals (scientists,  engineers and software  developers) who develop  products with significant  focus on safety and  effectiveness of clinical  outcomes, better dental  practice workflows and  advanced dental solutions Developed first   electric dental drillInvented flowable bulk  fill and other restorative  materials to enable dental  professionals to reduce   the use of amalgamInvested over $600 million   in innovation over the past six  years with an increasing   focus on digital dentistry BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessKEY  BUSINESS AREASWe provide dental professionals with comprehensive end-to- end solutions.
This offering includes some of the best-known and  established brands in the industry.
We develop superior, integrated  workflows built on diagnostic excellence, easy-to-use treatment  planning, and essential products that improve outcomes for patients  and dental professionals.
We also develop, manufacture and market a complete line of dental  and oral health products, including general dental supplies and  devices, CAD/CAM restoration systems, software solutions,   a full suite of dental restorative products, panoramic and 3D imaging  systems, intra-oral scanners, clear aligners, dental treatment centers,  hand-pieces, hygiene systems, and dental specialty products   in orthodontics, endodontics and implants.
All these products  support key dental procedures with a strong commitment to science,  documentation and education, while enabling reliable diagnosis and  predictably successful treatments for dentists and patients.
Digital solutions are a critical component of our offering.
Every  year, more than 92 million patients are treated on more than 35,000  digital Dentsply Sirona treatment centers, 440 million digital x-ray  intra-oral/extra-oral (IO/EO) images are taken yearly with 140,000  Dentsply Sirona systems, reducing the need for traditional film- based X-rays.
More than seven million scans are taken every year  with Dentsply Sirona intraoral scanners.
THE DENTSPLY SIRONA PORTFOLIO:   UNMATCHED BRANDS AND TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENTSPRODUCT  CATEGORIESDigital   SolutionsEnabling  DevicesOrthodontics Implants HealthcareSingle Unit  Crown  (Indirect)Root Canal TreatmentDigital Lab  Workflow &  Preventive  ProceduresClass II   (Direct)WELL-ESTABLISHED BRANDSAxeos Orthophos Sidexis Schick Primescan CEREC® Primemill Omnicam inLab®Intego Sinius Teneo SiroLaser DAC T1 Midwest®   T2 Midwest®   T3 Midwest®   T4 Midwest®SureSmile®Astra Tech  Implant System® Atlantis® Simplant® PrimeTaperAquasil Ultra+   CEREC   tessera CEREC  Zirconia+ Calibra   CementsProTaper  Ultimate WaveOne®   Gold AH Plus®Cavitron® Cavitron®  Slimline® Nupro® Portrait IPN   Denture Teeth Cercon   Zirconia Lucitone PrintPalodent® Plus   Palodent TPH Spectra ST   SmartLite Pro Surefil one CONSUMABLES TECHNOLOGIES & EQUIPMENT Smart Wetting Impression MaterialSectional   Matrix System Universal Composite  Restorative BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessOUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGYSustainability strategy is  fundamental to our mission.
We strive to integrate  sustainability and lifecycle  thinking into everything we do.
We believe a commitment to sustainability   is demonstrated by action.
That’s why we are  building our sustainability strategy around three  key pillars — Healthy Planet, Healthy Smiles and  Healthy  Business — that will guide and challenge us  as we take action for a brighter world .
As part of our ongoing engagement and feedback  process with stakeholders, we will be conducting  a full materiality assessment in Q1 2022.
This will  ensure we are continually addressing the most  pressing ESG issues for our stakeholders and  ensure our sustainability strategy is future-fit.
We are committed to  safeguarding the health of our  planet, for now and for future  generations.
A healthy planet  is fundamental to our future,  so we strive to mitigate the  environmental impacts of our  operations through specific  actions including optimization  of our footprint, conserving  resources and recycling materials.
We work to improve oral health  globally and support our  customers to bring the best  possible treatment and care   to patients through high quality   and innovative products,  supported by industry-leading  Clinical Education.
We know that an inclusive  and respectful culture, with  opportunities for personal and  professional development,   is crucial to achieving a healthy  team.
That is why we support and  empower our employees to bring  their whole selves to work.We believe a healthy business  is built through responsible,  transparent practices.
To us,  this means effective integration  of Environmental, Social and  Governance (ESG) factors  into business practices and  risk management; an honest,  transparent approach to  communicating our strengths  and opportunities; and strong  business continuity.
VISION MISSION At Dentsply Sirona, we go  beyond the ordinary to improve  lives around the world and  create healthy smiles.Every day, we empower millions  of customers by proudly  creating innovative solutions   for healthy smiles.We transform  dentistry   to improve oral  health globally.
SUSTAINABILITY  STRATEGY BEYOND Taking action for   a brighter world.
HEALTHY   PLANETHEALTHY   SMILESHEALTHY   BUSINESS BEYOND Ӏ Our Business  Ӏ Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessBEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  Business BEYOND Ӏ 13OUR APPROACH   TO MANAGING  SUSTAINABILITY Our commitment to building a sustainable  business begins at the top and is embedded  throughout the entire company.
Dentsply Sirona‘s Board of Directors (the “Board”) has oversight of   the Company’s sustainability strategy.
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board  oversees the management of risks related to our environmental and  governance practices, and coordinates with the Human Resources  Committee on management of risks related to our social practices.
Additionally, the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board oversees  and assesses risks related to the Company with respect to cyber  security and data privacy matters.
The Board currently receives regular updates on sustainability  topics and coordinates with its committees to ensure active Board  and Committee level oversight of the Company’s management of  sustainability-related risks.
We have a robust process in place for identifying, assessing, and  responding to climate-related risks and opportunities.
The Board  schedules periodic reviews of all Enterprise Risk Management topics  including Business Continuity Planning.
Our Chief Supply Chain Officer  is directly responsible for reporting to the Board on all topics impacting  business continuity, which include supplier failure associated with  climate-related risks.
Written objectives and performance relative to  those objectives are provided to the Board for regular review.
During  2020 we engaged on numerous climate-related issues: we established   a full global GHG inventory, undertook an environmental audit,  developed our understanding of climate-related risks to the supply  chain, and monitored for climate-related regulatory impact.BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our ESG committee, led by our CFO and reporting to the  Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, is  responsible for developing and overseeing the implementation  of our Company-wide sustainability strategy, and ensuring our  business processes and practices, including decision-making,  take ESG factors into account.
The committee is composed  of executive leadership and multi-disciplinary, management- level subject-matter experts from Supply Chain, Operations,  Employee Health and Safety (EHS), Legal, Human Resources,  Investor Relations, Finance, and Communications.The Committee is tasked with developing the necessary internal  controls, data management and frameworks for our ESG  strategy and disclosure efforts.
Working closely alongside our  Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Human  Resources Committee, the ESG committee is overseeing all  sustainability-related implementation plans and looks forward  to communicating on progress in the near future.
The ESG Committee membership includes 50% women,   and 12.5% members of ethnically diverse groups.
ESG COMMITTEEESG   COMMITTEECorporate  Governance  and Nominating  Committee Audit and   Finance  Committee Executive  CommitteeBOARD   OF DIRECTORS Human   Resources  Committee Science and  Technology  Committee  Dane  BaumgardnerOFFICE OF  THE GENERAL  COUNSELCHIEF  COMMERCIAL  OFFICERCHIEF  FINANCIAL  OFFICERCHIEF HUMAN  RESOURCES  OFFICERVP CORPORATE  COMMUNICATIONS Dan Key  Marion   Par-Weixlberger Terri DolanCHIEF CLINICAL  OFFICERCHIEF SUPPLY  CHAIN OFFICER  Andrea DaleyVP INVESTOR  RELATIONS Lisa Yankie  Jorge Gomez  Walter Petersohn BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessTo deliver this strategy we must go beyond the ordinary to improve lives around the world and create healthy smiles.
We will:  • Go Beyond  what we can achieve as a company by inviting our employees and customers to take action with  us, in both a personal and professional capacity.
To achieve this, we are:  • Creating a diverse, inclusive, and respectful workforce for the future where creativity can flourish;  • Rolling out an internal campaign focused on awareness, education, employee engagement and   employee activation;  • Focusing on innovation to deliver quality products and services to those that need them the most and that  people love to use; and  • Building lasting relationships with our customers, supporting them with cutting-edge Clinical Education and  sustainable products to give their patients the best possible treatment and care.
• Go Beyond  the impact we can achieve as an organization by establishing impactful partnerships and develop  philanthropic initiatives to bring better health and wellbeing to communities all around the world.
For  instance, we have:   • Become a founding partner of the FDI World Dental Federation “Sustainability in Dentistry” partnership  (p.17), and  • Signed a new five-year renewable flagship charitable partnership.
• Go Beyond  local and regional actions, driving a strategic global sustainability program and safeguarding our  planet for future generations to come.
• Going Beyond  the standard stakeholder requirements and expectations whenever we can, striving for  excellence in our own operations through clear and transparent reporting, embracing change, and future- proofing our business through responsible practices.
This is how we will make a meaningful difference for  ourselves, our planet, and future generations, while ensuring a healthy business.
Our ESG committee reviews  our sustainability goals regularly and assesses if and how targets can be accelerated.LIVING OUR SUSTAINABILITY  STRATEGY  We are passionate about ensuring that our work makes a difference.
Every day, we live our sustainability strategy through three pillars:   focusing on people, customers and communities; being trustworthy   corporate citizens; and safeguarding the planet for future generations.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessOUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Everything we do — from empowering   our customers to provide the best  quality dental care to patients, to  ensuring an environmentally responsible  workplace, to developing our talent,  to educating our customers — is done  with the ambition to improve oral health  globally and create healthy smiles.
We see smiles as those of patients,  communities, our customers, and   our employees.As a global business and leader in oral  health, we understand our responsibility  to the environment and to protecting  and preserving the planet for future  generations.
To demonstrate our  commitment, we have set a target, in  line with globally recognized standards,  of reaching net zero carbon emissions  by 2050.We are committed to gender parity  across our global business and   we recognize the positive impact that   a diverse workforce brings.
To ensure   we are fostering a culture of equality and  fairness, we are creating an environment  of inclusion across gender, ethnicity and  all forms of diversity.We are committed to gender pay parity  and being part of the solution to close  the global gender pay gap.Setting strong, ambitious yet achievable sustainability goals is   a critical part of our strategy process.
Along with sustainability goals,  which you can find summarized at the start of each pillar chapter  (Healthy Planet p.30 , Healthy Smiles p.42 , Healthy  Business p.66 ),  we developed flagship goals to be our north star.
Aligned with global frameworks and targets, these goals articulate  our Company vision, direct the strategy, and hold us accountable  to the Board and all stakeholders.
They set the stage to create new  opportunities, ensure proper management of resources, improve  stakeholder relations, and ensure we can continue to grow and adapt  in a rapidly changing global economy.
These goals will enable us to realize our vision to transform dentistry  and improve oral health globally, as we deliver innovative solutions  to customers and empower them to give millions of people access to  better dental care.
Achieve 25 million   smiles by Reach Net Zero carbon  emissions (Scopes 1-3)   by 2050Work to achieve global  gender pay parity   by 2025Strive to achieve   global gender parity   by 25 M BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessSPOTLIGHTSUSTAINABILITY IN DENTISTRY We are incredibly proud to play a key role as co-founder of a landmark project to improve sustainability in dentistry, launched in May 2021.
We have joined GSK Consumer Healthcare, Procter & Gamble, Colgate and TePe as founding partners with the FDI World Dental Federation to promote sustainability   in dentistry amongst practitioners, patients and throughout the supply chain.
By uniting key peers from the healthcare sector, the FDI and our customers, this partnership will create a new wave of sustainable action within dentistry and set   an ambitious benchmark.
On a practical level, it will equip dentists and their teams with the tools and resources to improve sustainability in their dental practices, while  informing the general public of the role they can play in ensuring a sustainable future for dentistry, both through improved oral health and by making sustainable decisions.
The partnership’s aims are:  • To inspire and equip all stakeholders to address the issue of sustainability in oral healthcare, identify potential solutions and strategies, and build motivation and  commitment to reducing environmental impact.
• To engage with stakeholders from all levels of the supply chain to commit to manage plastic use in a practical and sustainable manner, and pledge to follow the FDI  Sustainability Code of Practice.
• To motivate and equip dentists and their teams with the ability to improve sustainability in their dental practices.
• To inform patients of their personal role in contributing to sustainability through improved oral health and making sustainable choices.
• To engage with governments and policy makers (via National Dental Associations) to deliver a model of sustainable dentistry.
Members will develop a Consensus Statement outlining the global environmental impacts of dentistry and how members will strive for continuous improvement across   the industry.
This statement will form the basis of the partnership’s Code of Good Practice, which will provide guidelines and objectives for achieving a sustainable  procurement and supply process.
Companies across the global dental supply chain will be encouraged to sign the document and commit to a more sustainable future.Sustainability in dentistry partnership   with the FDI World Dental Federation (FDI) I am delighted to witness FDI’s Sustainability in Dentistry  project evolve into this high caliber, multi-partner initiative  to achieve our sustainability goals for the dental profession.
“The project’s humble beginnings as a way to encourage  oral health professionals and dental practices to ‘think  green’ is now moving into a phase of collaboration, action  and real results.
Dr. Gerhard K.
Seeberger, FDI President We are incredibly proud to be a founding member of the  new cross-sector Sustainability in Dentistry partnership   with the FDI.
Our mission as a Company is to improve oral  health worldwide and sustainability is core to our strategy.
We are committed to helping create a more sustainable  world for future generations and look forward to   the progress we will be able to achieve through this  landmark initiative.
Don Casey, CEO BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessSUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT  GOALWHAT DENTSPLY SIRONA IS DOING Ensure healthy lives   and promote well-being   for all at all ages.
• Dentsply Sirona is focused on promoting the overall wellbeing of the global community.
• Specifically, we are focused on how to progress our vision of transforming dentistry to improve oral health globally, whether it is through  increasing access to dental care, delivering innovative solutions or providing better Clinical Education around oral health.
• We work with numerous charitable organizations and initiatives at a local, national, and international level to provide and improve oral healthcare  through the donation of expertise and resources, including a five-year, flagship charitable partnership with Smile Train due to be launched in  2021 ( p.62), and long-standing volunteer missions such as with Let Love International (Peru) and Nine Miles of Smiles (Jamaica).
• We also prioritize employee health, safety and wellbeing, implementing employee health and safety (EHS) programs, processes and  training throughout all our global sites — such as Near Miss and SAFEDI — and ensuring alignment to best practice EHS frameworks and  certifications such as OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001.
We also run a comprehensive program of employee physical and mental wellbeing  initiatives in all sites around the world.
Ensure inclusive   and equitable quality  education and promote  lifelong learning  opportunities for all.• Dentsply Sirona is enhancing education in dentistry and oral health, and each year the Dentsply Sirona Academy supports dental  professionals to deepen knowledge, develop technical and clinical skills, and improve their practices.
• The Academy addresses a wide range of education needs, providing evidence-based, scientifically sound educational and practical  content for achieving clinical excellence in virtually all dental disciplines, as well as technical excellence in specific Dentsply Sirona  technologies.
• In addition, we work with universities, organizations and experts around the world to develop curricula to help deliver world-class  education and training programs to dental professionals and students alike.
• We are committed to Clinical Education with 60 training facilities, dental academies and showrooms, running 7,289 courses with 1,029,000  attendees from 80 countries in 2020.
• Internally, we are committed to quality training and education for all our employees and to support this, we have recently re-launched our  improved online training platform.
HOW OUR WORK ALIGNS  WITH THE UN SUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG s) SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG s)We live in times characterized by constant change, and global  challenges that require collective effort and sustained action to  solve.
We are committed to being part of that collective endeavor,  and are well placed to engage in sustainable activities that will leave  a lasting positive impact.
We support the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals  (SDGs), monitoring how our key sustainability priorities align with  different goals, and selecting those that most closely connect with  our mission to improve the lives of individuals and communities  around the world.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessAchieve gender equality  and empower all   women and girls.• Within our business, our global Diversity & Inclusion Council, established in 2020, is working tirelessly to benchmark, challenge, and  prioritize action, and ensure that our existing policies and business structures are inclusive both at senior management level and across the  entire business.
• We are proud to be a member of the cross-sector Paradigm for Parity initiative ( p.48 ), a coalition committed to addressing the corporate  leadership gender gap.
We have set global gender parity and gender pay parity goals by 2025.
• The Management Committee Talent Development Review reviews succession plans and the high-potential pipeline, with attention to  identifying and accelerating diverse talent.
• Our quarterly CEO Scorecard reports to the Board both diversity in turnover and representation.
A quarterly Human Resources Scorecard  reports key metrics including turnover, tenure and promotion rate across demographics, businesses and geographies.
• At the end of 2020, we had over 800 employees in Employee Resource Groups, focused on cultivating positive, inclusive working  relationships and opening opportunities for development.
• The Board of Directors reviews talent as part of the annual strategic planning process.
Promote sustained,  inclusive and sustainable  economic growth, full and  productive employment  and decent work for all.• We recognize the importance of attracting, engaging, developing, and retaining the best talent — a principal factor in achieving and  maintaining sustainable performance.
• To do this, we have a suite of initiatives in place including our annual Talent Development Review process, which strengthens our talent  pipeline, aids succession planning, and increases the visibility of diverse talent.
• Our online learning library, global mentoring program, Early Career program and Leadership Development programs are all set to launch  in 2021.
Build resilient  infrastructure, promote  inclusive and sustainable  industrialization   and foster innovation.• As a global leader in oral health, our focus is on continuous innovation to produce the highest quality products that help our customers  provide patients with the best care and treatment.
This extends to exceeding the standards of our customers and partners, in key areas  such as product safety, testing and access to dental care.
• We have invested $600m over six years in R&D, and currently employ >650 R&D professionals including scientists, engineers and software  developers — who are focused on the best quality, design, ergonomics, digitization and improved workflows for dental professionals.
Reduce inequality within  and among countries.• We are committed to diversity and inclusion, and view it as a source of great strength within our business.
As a Company, we work hard  to foster an environment of equality, inclusiveness, and fairness, setting clear goals and objectives to enable us to tackle inequality and  become more inclusive.
• To support us in our efforts and ensure that we continue to remain informed, in 2020 we launched a Diversity and Inclusion survey  in the U.S to better understand the implications of the pandemic on the diversity within our business and beyond, and rolled out a  comprehensive D&I training program including unconscious bias training as well as our Conversation of Understanding initiative.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessEnsure sustainable  consumption and  production patterns.• We are dedicated to minimizing the environmental impact of our operations and protect the environment for future generations.
We do  this by implementing sustainable practices across our business such as encouraging energy and water conservation, and recycling and  reusing as often as we can.
• We continue to develop, implement and improve global Environmental Health & Safety programs.
We are currently developing Corporate  Environmental Health & Safety standards aligned with recognized consensus frameworks, such as ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 or  equivalent certifications.
• We recently established a 2019 baseline for Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
• We are incorporating climate risk evaluation into risk management business practices and will continue to participate in the annual Carbon  Disclosure Project (CDP) climate survey, setting out a dedicated climate strategy in the coming months: both short term (by 2025) and  long-term (by 2050).
We will also continue to make discloses in alignment with the recommendations of the Task Force for Climate-related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
• Our materiality assessment, planned for Q1 2022, will identify material issues, risks and opportunities, and will be followed by action to  improve our sustainability performance and footprint.
Take urgent action   to combat climate change  and its impacts.• We recognize that environmental stewardship, including understanding and working to mitigate the impacts of climate change, is a  necessary focus to achieve our objective of safeguarding our planet for future generations.
• To demonstrate our commitment, we have set out a range of ambitious environmental targets and key strategic priorities, including  achieving our net zero carbon emissions goal by 2050, reducing our total waste production by ≥  15% by 2025, and are aiming to achieve a  reduction of water withdrawal for our manufacturing/warehouse operations ≥  15% by 2025.
• We also recently established a baseline for GHG emissions for 2019 and have set a target to reduce our combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG  emissions by ≥  15% by 2025.
Protect, restore, and  promote sustainable  use of terrestrial  ecosystems, sustainably  manage forests, combat  desertification, and  halt and reverse land  degradation and halt  biodiversity loss.• As an international Company with offices and production facilities around the world, we recognize the responsibility that comes with  having a global footprint.
• We understand that our duty of care extends beyond our employees and patients.
We must also focus on preserving the planet: ensuring  an environmentally responsible workplace, managing waste and water pollution and promoting local biodiversity, for instance through  the installation of beehives on the roof of our Munich production site.
That way, we continue to be part of the solution helping to drive  sustainability in the communities where we live and work.
• We are developing a global waste reduction strategy that will enable us to achieve our newly published waste reduction goal.
• Our local teams have worked on the continuing process of improving water withdrawal and discharge tracking, and on introducing water  reduction initiatives.
Strengthen the means  of implementation and  revitalize the global  partnership for sustainable  development.• We engage in impactful partnerships and philanthropic initiatives, aimed at advancing better health and wellbeing globally.
• In the coming year, we also plan to increase and improve our oral health and community engagement, establishing new partnerships   with leading charities and organizations, and will be launching a new global social responsibility framework to support our efforts.
• One example is our Sustainability in Dentistry partnership with the FDI ( p.17), where we will work together to further global sustainability  initiatives and progress across the dental industry.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessWORKING CLOSELY   WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS  Collaboration is key to achieving our mission to transform  dentistry, improve oral health globally, and create healthy  smiles.
It is also a critical part of executing our sustainability  strategy.
Actively engaging with our stakeholders keeps  us accountable and ensures we are constantly pushing  ourselves and others to strive for better.
ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS ACROSS OUR THREE SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS HEALTHY PLANET HEALTHY SMILES HEALTHY BUSINESS Customers • Engagement on environmental goals  • Involvement in FDI partnership ( p.17) to promote  sustainability in dentistry amongst practitioners, patients and  throughout the supply chain• Engagement on social goals  • Clinical Education, resources and expertise sharing e.g.,  Dentsply Sirona Academy, #hereforyou portal   to facilitate practitioner best practice adoption  • Clinical research and studies  • Awards for promising dental students  • Diversity & inclusion and treatment innovation  partnerships  e.g. Smart Integration Awards  • Dentsply Sirona Key Opinion Leader program• Clinical trials standards  development and data sharing  • Product use instructions, supported by a standardized  validation and communication process • Privacy Policy  • Marketing to Professionals Code of Conduct  • Ethical Customer Interaction Policy  • Business partner code of conduct  • Post-market clinical studies  • Customer service and complaint  handling  • Cybersecurity program to protect customer data  Employees • Engagement on environmental opportunities to achieve   our goals, including employee participation in environmental  initiatives  • Increasing awareness around our environmental performance  • Training and support around development of new  environmentally friendly materials or processes, e.g.,  cardboard packaging for zirconia discs replacing foam  packaging • Engagement on social goals  • Employee resource groups (ERGs)  • D&I training  • Leadership development program; Early Career program  • Employee engagement surveys to gauge and respond to  employee sentiment  • Global employee health, safety, and wellness programs  • Employee awards and recognition  • Community volunteerism• Whistleblower hotline  • Ethics and compliance hotline  • Employee training on governance topics including:  • Workplace safety  • Code of ethics and business conduct  • Data privacy and security  • Business gifts and entertainment  • Hotline whistleblower system  • Anti-corruption and anti-bribery  • Anti-harassment  HEALTHY PLANET HEALTHY SMILES HEALTHY BUSINESS BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessHEALTHY PLANET HEALTHY SMILES HEALTHY BUSINESS Communities • Working to improve the environment of our communities,  e.g., installation of beehives on the rooftop of our Munich,  Germany, office • Supporting environmental associations, e.g., Zero Waste  training in Switzerland (2019)• Local community volunteerism and donations, e.g. Let Love  International (Peru), Nine Miles of Smiles (Jamaica), BrownGirl  RDH (USA), Leuven SMILE project (Belgium), Build Your Smile  Dental Foundation (Uganda), ByteCares (USA), Sorrir muda  tudo (Brazil) • Compliance with local laws and regulations  Partners • Communication around involvement in key partnerships such  as the Sustainability in Dentistry FDI partnership (planned   in 2020; launched in 2021.
More info on p.17 ) • Engagement on social goals  • Involvement in strategic philanthropic partnerships and  donations such as with Smile Train, the flagship charitable  partnership set to be launched in 2021 ( p.62 )• Member of numerous advisory boards for partner  organizations including the University of Pennsylvania Dental  Medicine Board of Overseers, American Dental Association  Science and Research Institute Board of Directors, American  College of Dentists, Dental Trade Alliance Patients   (including Byte  Customers)• More environmentally preferred composite materials —  helping dentists remove amalgam and other metal   from cavities • Provision of educational resources for patients, e.g. video/ blog content to support FAQs  • Communication through email/social  • Product donations: offering support and oral products to  underserved communities  • Patient Advocacy Groups  • Remote and connected care programs• Customer service and complaint handling Investors • Engagement on environmental goals  • ESG disclosures (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  (SASB) — and Task Force for Climate-related Financial  Disclosures (TCFD) -aligned)  • Communications on CDP climate survey  • Transparent communication and engagement on climate risk  and DS’ sustainability strategy through digital hub and   regular updates• Engagement on social goals  • Engagement on labor practices, human rights, and inclusion  and diversity  • Annual updates on Board and ESG committee composition  diversity  • Quarterly calls and other regular  engagements about product  pipeline, acquisitions, growth etc.
• Regular engagements about  environmental, social,  and governance issues • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  • Regular briefings to the Board on the cybersecurity program Suppliers • Engagement on environmental goals • Engagement on social goals  • Business partner code of conduct to ensure expectations with  suppliers are mutually met  • Modern Slavery Acts  • Supplier quality agreements  • Regular supplier audits • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  • International trade compliance policy  • International Trade and Customs Compliance Policy  • Training on anti-corruption and anti-bribery, export  compliance, anti-trust and competition law, privacy and   data protection  • Cybersecurity program to ensure supplier information  integrity  • Product safety program Government regulators  and policymakers• Engagement on environmental goals  • Ensuring the Corporate Environmental Health & Safety  Management System is aligned with frameworks including  ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001• Engagement on social goals  • Disclosure of diversity figures  • Participation in public-private partnerships that  increase access to care among communities• Maintaining updated cybersecurity policies and standards  aligned with cyber control frameworks including ISO 27001,  COBIT, NIST  • Certifying facilities as appropriate to ISO 13485, EU MDD, EU  MDR, OHSAS 18001, or ISO 45001 and complying with FDA  QSR 820, as well as other international regulations  • Disclosure of:  • Political involvement  • Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal  proceedings associated with corruption and bribery HEALTHY PLANET HEALTHY SMILES HEALTHY BUSINESS BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability  Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy  Planet  Ӏ Healthy  Smiles  Ӏ Healthy  BusinessBEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ  COVID-19 response  Ӏ Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business BEYOND Ӏ 23OUR COVID-RESPONSEConfronted with a global crisis, Dentsply Sirona responded quickly to ensure the health  of our employees around the globe, while also continuing to support our customers  through this unpredictable time.
Alongside our global partners, we worked to implement  solutions, as well as deliver essential services and products to individuals   and communities around the world.
The global pandemic challenged both the world and  Dentsply Sirona in a truly unprecedented way, and as   a company, we had to navigate challenges never previously  faced.
We are proud of the way we managed this crisis,   led by diverse and considerate thinking to preserve   the safety of our employees and customers, and ensure  business continuity.
Don Casey, CEO A key priority for us was maintaining constant and clear  communication with our employees and customers, as well as with  our partners in the dental industry.
As the pandemic hit, we launched  communications measures in March 2020 to provide information  and useful updates in real time, relying on daily assessments and  evaluations of the situation (COVID-19 figures, business impact,  employee and customer sentiment) to make decisions and create  informed, adaptable plans for the business, our employees,   and our customers.
On top of our annual employee engagement survey, we launched an  additional global post-COVID-19 return-to-workplace pulse survey  to understand the impact of the pandemic on our employees and  how to support them.
In total, 3,500 people participated across 30  countries.
Most felt well informed by our COVID-19 communication,  evaluated their work environment as safe and felt equipped to  implement preventive measures in local workplaces.
Many also said  they felt that Dentsply Sirona cared about their overall well-being.
Throughout the crisis, we remained true to our goal of providing  unwavering support — instilling in our employees, customers and peers  a sense of confidence in us — and defined six key pillars to help guide  our action: anticipate, navigate, communicate, listen, learn and lead.
On this foundation we quickly developed a comprehensive plan of  action, comprising a communications program, and a Listening and  Positivity strategy.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ  COVID-19 response  Ӏ Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessRESPONSECOMMUNICATIONS   PROGRAM • We organized monthly virtual Town Halls to encourage open  communication.
On average our Town Halls‘ intranet pages  generated 28,000 views.
• We launched a weekly COVID-19 all-employee newsletter  that garnered a total of 65,000 views.
Each newsletter  included updates on the rapidly changing landscape,   stories to support mental and physical health, a media  briefing of relevant headlines, and updates from DS  locations worldwide.
We rolled out a daily COVID-19 media briefing, covering the  most important information about our industry and beyond,  informing employees of any relevant impact on our business.
• We launched a COVID-19 employee website  to function as  a central information channel that employees could access  remotely, critically important for non-desk-based workers.
In  total, the website received close to 10,000 views.
• We launched a COVID-19 information section on our global  intranet, DS Community, to act as a global internal hub for all  COVID-19 related news and information, which included videos  and toolkits.
In total, the hub gained over 30,000 views.
• We disseminated regular CEO messages for customers  to keep them informed about the supply chain continuity  and to strengthen relationships with patients and dental  suppliers throughout the pandemic.
OUR COVID-19• In 2020 Dentsply Sirona has created and shared over 300  documents with employees and customers around the world.
• We created and distributed a COVID-19 guide for Dentsply  Sirona offices and manufacturing sites, including Leadership  Toolkits and Brochures on hygiene and safety measures.
• The quality of our COVID-19 guide measures was officially  recognized by the Swiss authorities, after a surprise audit  at our site in Ballaigues, Switzerland.
• Our site in Mexicali, Mexico, received an award from   the local health department for the site COVID-19   prevention program, recognizing that it was best in class  during their review.
• Our Bensheim site was commended for the measures   taken during mandatory official checks by the  Regierungspräsidium Darmstadt.
• We created multiple videos to increase access to insights,  information and support, including: • Explaining the risks of COVID-• A guide to reopening workplaces BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ  COVID-19 response  Ӏ Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessSOCIAL MEDIA CAMPAIGN • To demonstrate the resilience of our industry and the reiterate the importance of oral  health for the overall health, we launched a social media campaign “Teeth don’t Heal  Themselves” on Facebook, Instagram, and LinkedIn, where DS leaders and employees,   as well as dental professionals, shared positive thoughts and reflections on the importance  of dental health, overall reaching over 515,000 individuals.
LISTENING AND   POSITIVITY STRATEGY  • We conducted a Pulse survey of 3,500 employees in selected countries to gather feedback about  COVID-19 communication throughout the Company and refine our outreach.
• We utillized our podcast format DS Tunes and our live-chat format DS Chat to give employees  and customers a voice and to keep them informed.
• Until August 2020 we recorded 15 DS Tunes sessions in which employees shared their  experiences of remote learning, leadership, and other topics.
Dentists reported business best  practices during the pandemic and provided insights on staying positive.
DS tunes received   in total over 76,000 listens.
• We also launched an interactive dialogue format DS Chat that allows employees to address  their questions directly and live to the management teams.
In total, the six COVID-19 DS Chat  episodes had over 10,000 live participants, with over 100,000 total views.
• We created a Song of the Day Playlist where our CEO Don Casey shared a motivating song  accompanied by a personal note for 49 consecutive days.
The playlist is available on YouTube    and Spotify .
• We also launched numerous activity-based initiatives to promote good physical and mental  health and wellbeing among employees.
• In Mölndal, Sweden, we piloted “Step by Step towards Midsummer,” an initiative that  encouraged employees to form healthier habits by midsummer.
• In China, more than 100 staff utilized the WeChat communications platform to organize virtual  fitness sessions, with awards given to the most active members.
• The Manesar, India, team rolled out a twice-a-day formal stretching program for staff on-site  — Flexi Power Yoga — to reduce the risk of ergonomic injury.
In July 2020, the program was  extended to a second facility at Manesar, and by the end of 2020 nearly 120 employees had  participated.
• Dentsply Sirona DACH launched the digital “Fit & Hungrig” (English: “Fit & Hungry”) campaign,  which brought employees together to take part in virtual workouts.
A series of qualified  trainers ran bi-weekly 60-minute workouts, helping employees of all ability levels stay healthy.
Around 80 employees from the region participated in the 50 sports and yoga sessions held,  including two members of the DACH senior management team.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ  COVID-19 response  Ӏ Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessAT A GLANCE:  OUR COVID-19 RESPONSE   Our rapid, empathetic and comprehensive  approach to communications during   the crisis was officially recognized   by several awards, including: Germany U.S. APAC UK GlobalWinner, Internal change and  communications category  (COVID-19 communications),  Deutscher Preis für Online- Kommunikation.
Bronze winner, Inspiring  communications category  (COVID-19 communications),  North America Inspiring  Workplaces Awards.
This  award recognizes companies  that are championing internal  communications as a strategy to  improve employee engagement  instead of just a method of  disseminating information.
Silver winner, Internal  communications category,   PR Awards Asia Highly commended,   Best use of video and  animation category (DS Chat),  Internal communications and  engagement awards.
Gold winner, Listening &  Positivity as a strategy to give  guidance in times of uncertainty,  Stevie® Awards for Great  Employers 9,322   views  COVID-19   employee   website30,496  page views   DS Community  COVID-19  information  section27,730   average views  Video messages   from our CEO   Don Casey76,289   listens  DS Tunes >10,000   employees  DS Live Chat:  reached more  than 10,000  employees live  during the chat 4,768   average listens per episode 516,007   overall reach  Social Media  Campaign11,000   user engagements 65,884   total views  The Weekly  Employee  Newsletter5,989   average views per edition  3,500   participants  Global employee  Pulse Survey BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ  COVID-19 response  Ӏ Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessLOOKING AFTER   OUR CUSTOMERS  The global challenge presented by the COVID-19  pandemic has reminded us how interdependent   we are as individuals, communities, organizations  and societies.
Don Casey, CEO Our focus on developing  innovative products and  integrated solutions that  customers love to use and that  make a difference in people’s  lives has been integral to our  Company since its inception,  and became even more critical  during the pandemic.
We adapted our Clinical  Education offerings and  expanded our digital and virtual  clinical event platforms, to  allow our customers to maintain  access to education and training  despite dental offices and  professional meetings being  closed around the world.
Our  team did this incredibly quickly:  the first digital customer event  was rolled out in March 2020.
In total during 2020, we  provided 7,289 training courses,  training 1,029,000 dental  professionals (up from 470,000  in 2019) from 80 countries.
In France, the team developed  an extensive “restart” pack  for dental practices.
The pack  included useful information on  infection prevention, clinical  appointment planning and  developments in adhesive  dentistry, a series of webinars  with guest speakers, and a set  of informative videos (FR) with  Dr Inès Meisels, dental surgeon  and the president of the AVASN,  an organization that certifies  the public internet accounts of  healthcare professionals.
Within  the first five days of publishing  the first video, it had more than  3,600 views.
When work turned virtual,  the German team found an  innovative way to support  customers and stay connected.
The sales team devised  virtual demonstrations for  flagship products including  Primescan, Primemills, CEREC  and SmartLite Pro, creating  a virtual demo room where  they could walk customers  through product usage, answer  questions and deliver a quality  personalized experience.
In  total, the German sales team  hosted 110 of these meetings,  leading to new orders from  satisfied customers.
As the severity of the crisis and  risk to employee health became  clear, we kept our leadership  team and employees updated  through a dashboard on the  impact of COVID-19   that covered the number of sites  affected, employees who   tested positive, employees  in isolation, and employees  released from isolation.
Working remotely soon became  the new reality for many, so we  quickly pivoted to a full work  remote model where possible,  implementing a Global Flexible  Work Policy.
With the loss of  social interaction between  employees in an office setting,  we also focused on ways to  help their physical and mental  wellbeing, launching our global  Employee Assistance Program   to maintain motivation and  boost morale.
For employees who could  not work remote and  remained working on-site, we  implemented strict regulations  for any site visitors, including  suppliers; established health  and safety processes like  SAFEDI (Safe Distance Control)  at Bensheim, Germany, which  has now been retained as  best practice; implemented  a Crisis Management Team  and a strict process on how  to handle and report Covid-19  cases among our global teams;  rolled out a rapid escalation  process for infection cases;  installed multiple disinfection  points; offered face masks to  all employees; and, as soon  as testing became possible,  encouraged regular testing.
We amplified these global  measures by empowering   all our local teams to take   any action they felt necessary   to keep their employees  safe, and to adapt initiatives  according to local needs and  regulations.
We also equipped  our local leaders with internal  and external communications  and guidelines for reopening   our workplaces, to ensure  effective information sharing   to all stakeholders and   safe re-openings.
In the face of immeasurable  change and challenging  personal circumstances, our  employees demonstrated  remarkable resilience, strength,  and commitment.PROTECTING THE HEALTH   OF OUR EMPLOYEES  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ  COVID-19 response  Ӏ Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessAt the height of the crisis, much of our supply chain shut down globally.
Guided by our business  continuity plan, the Dentsply Sirona team worked tirelessly throughout 2020 to support our  supply chain partners as they navigated challenges presented by the pandemic, adjusting product  volumes, and navigating logistics during this unpredictable time.
Working closely with suppliers  through the crisis, we were able to get infrastructure up and running again quickly and safely as  dental offices around the world began to reopen.
We are proud of the way the team rose to the  challenge and was able to support our customers throughout the year.
SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES   AROUND THE WORLD  Guided by our mission to improve the lives of individuals and communities around the world, we worked diligently with our partners to provide  key products, services, and support to communities around the world to help in the fight against the pandemic.
Our teams across the world  made meaningful donations to charitable organizations, dental practices and individuals:  Our local team raised money  in a crowdfunding campaign  for the community NGO  Nuvem de Borboletas, with  a target to purchase fabrics,  thread, and rubber bands   to make 2,500 masks.
By June 2020, more  than 15,623 masks had  been donated to health  professionals and volunteers,  in addition to indigenous  tribes of the Amazon  (Yanomami community).We repurposed operations  to produce disinfectant  hand sanitizers for both  personal and professional  use in instances where it had  become difficult to source  supplies due to the increase  in demand.
Zhermack   and MölndalPirassununga   Brazil Dentsply Sirona Japan  donated 500 food products  to two food banks, with  plans to broaden efforts  across the APAC region.
Making use of our own  supply chain in the U.S.,  Dentsply Sirona donated  190,000 masks to 10,500  dental offices, to help meet  the rapidly rising demand for  face masks.Japan  U.S. Please know your  generosity is making   a world of a difference,  and we certainly would  not be where we are  today if it wasn’t for  your overwhelming  support.
Eugene A.
Woods,  Atrium Health1 CEO Atrium Health, a network of not-for-profit healthcare systems at nearly 40 hospitals and 900 care  locations in the U.S., received 12,700 masks in our donation push1  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ  COVID-19 response  Ӏ Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business BEYOND Ӏ BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business BEYOND Ӏ 30As a global leader in oral health,  we recognize the importance  of environmental stewardship.
Our duty extends beyond our  employees and patients —   to the preservation of the  planet.
A healthy planet    is fundamental to our future,  so we strive to mitigate the  environmental impact   of our operations and   conserve resources.
We do this by operating  in a responsible and  sustainable way, ensuring an  environmentally responsible,  safe and healthy workplace for  our employees, implementing  sustainable practices such as  recycling and reusing materials,  and finding new ways to reduce  energy and water usage.
At the end of 2020 we exited  the amalgam business, which  is known to have certain  environmental challenges.
At the same time, we developed  a new product, Surefil one, that  is more effective than traditional  amalgams and has a better  economic and environmental  profile.
As such, it made perfect  sense to exit the amalgam  business, showing that a focus  on environmental factors can  help drive innovation and  position us for the future in   a sustainable way.
Our U.S. headquarters   in Charlotte, North Carolina,   is LEED® and ENERGY STAR®  certified, and in 2016 our  manufacturing site in Ballaigues,  Switzerland, achieved (and  maintained ever since) the  MINERGIE® label for low energy- consumption buildings and  the highest possible use of  renewable energy.
HEALTHY   PLANET BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessWe recently established a baseline for Scopes 1 and 2 greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions for 2019.
Looking ahead, we will continue engaging in knowledge-sharing  and industry-leading partnerships, such as our new Sustainability  in Dentistry Partnership with the FDI, launched in 2021, which will  lead a collective effort to mitigate the environmental impacts of  the dental industry ( p.17).
We will continue to develop, implement  and improve global environmental health and safety programs  and performance, in alignment with globally recognized  consensus frameworks.
Finally, as part of our movement towards a global, consistent  and transparent approach to sustainability, we are incorporating  climate-related issues into our strategic and financial planning  processes.
Consequently, we have committed to reporting in line  with the TCFD disclosure recommendations as well as submitting  our TCFD-aligned Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire.
OUR HEALTHY PLANET GOALS To demonstrate our commitment to a healthy planet, we have  established strategic environmental priorities and associated  performance targets, including:  Combined Scopes 1   and 2 GHG Emissions   Reduction ≥ 15%   by 2025Total Waste   Reduction ≥ 15%   by 2025 Reduction of water  withdrawal for  manufacturing/ warehouse operations   ≥ 15% by Achieve net zero carbon  emissions (scopes 1-3)  by 0% BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessREDUCING EMISSIONSDentsply Sirona is committed to ensuring that our business  operations are sustainable and mitigate our impact on the  environment and local surroundings.
We are in the process of  setting out a dedicated climate strategy for both the short term  (by 2025) and the long term (by 2050).OUR EMISSIONS  We continually measure and report on our GHG emissions,  implementing the Schneider Resource Advisor during 2020 as our  global energy management system.
This allows for near real-time  insight into energy spend and emissions by location and respective  cost, leading to effective management of our energy use, reduced  operating costs and GHG emissions, improved responsiveness  to changing environmental conditions, and insight into potential  alternative energy sources.
Dentsply Sirona-wide utility costs during 2020 were about $9.2  million, equating to approximately 36,000 MT CO2e.
Improved  management and reduction of utility spend as a result of insight from  Schneider Resource Advisor are estimated to achieve 1% cost savings  which will enable further GHG emissions reductions.
Our global combined Scopes 1 and 2 emissions in 2020 were 38,601  metric tons of CO2e, of which 31,048 metric tons were Scope  2 emissions.
This was an improvement from our 2019 Scope 2  emissions of 33,190 metric tons of CO2e.
We are currently in the developmental stage of processes to capture,  analyze and report Scope 3 GHG emissions.
The greenhouse gas program is developed following methodology as outlined in the WRI GHG Protocol for Corporations.
The inventory for 2019 and 2020 includes an estimated 95% of owned and operated manufacturing facilities, major  warehouses, and major offices, and an estimated 98% of square footage.
Where information has been omitted, it has been  deemed immaterial — this includes extremely small offices and home offices.
Information captured and published prior to  2019 was not fully inclusive of all material sites.
Note 2020 data incorporates the COVID-19 impact.
ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS12019 Energy (kWh) 120,251,283 106,706,Scope 1 emissions (metric tons CO2e) 8,852 7,Scope 1 emissions (metric tons/$M Net Sales) 2.2 2.Scope 2 emissions (metric tons CO2e) 33,190 31,Scope 2 emissions (metric tons/$M Net Sales) 8.2 9.Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions (metric tons CO2e) 42,042 38,Scope 1 and 2 emissions (metric tons/$M Net Sales) 10.4 11.5OUR TOTAL GROSS GLOBAL SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS BY REGION Region Scope 1 emissions (metric tons CO2e) Americas 3,Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 4,Asia Pacific (or JAPA) OUR TOTAL GROSS GLOBAL SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS BY REGION Region Scope 2, location-based (metric tons CO2e) Americas 13,Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 16,Asia Pacific (or JAPA) 8131  2 DS SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS Scope 1 emissions  (metric tons CO2e)GHG (metric tons) GHG per $M Net Sales50,40,30,20,10.Scope 2 emissions  (metric tons CO2e)8,852 7,552 33,190 31,048 42,042 38,Scope 1 and 2 emissions  (metric tons CO2e)2.29.311.8.210.42020 Intensity 2019 Intensity2020 BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessON-SITE EMISSIONS REDUCTIONDuring 2020, we implemented a range of on-site emissions reduction initiatives,  including switching lighting to LEDs, moving from fuel oil to natural gas, replacing  pumps and motors with variable frequency drives, introducing better, more efficient  equipment and leveraging technology to replace hydraulic injection molding, including:  Switching to LED lighting  at the site led to estimated  annual energy savings of  85,000 kWh.  We replaced 65% of the fleet  vehicles with hybrid electric  vehicles, reducing the  relative fuel consumption by  approximately 20%.Switching to LED lighting,  which resulted in an  estimated energy saving   of 8,000 kWh a year.
We also achieved a reduction  in cutting oil consumption  of about 150 liters a week  (7,500 liters a year) by  implementing an innovative  process for oil filtering and  reuse that impacted   100% of the production  machines on site.
Mölndal has continued  to increase the use of  renewable energy since  2009.
In May 2020, the site  installed solar panels to  further reduce its reliance   on fossil fuels.
Our Swiss manufacturing  site successfully completed a  three-year carbon emissions  reduction plan signed with  local authorities that resulted  in a reduction of 326 tons   of CO2 and an increase   in energy efficiency of 13%  over the 2018-2020 period.
Photovoltaic panels installed  at the site generated a total  of 156,406 kWh over   the course of 2020.
Haifa   IsraelHanau   GermanyMölndal   SwedenBallaigues   Switzerland In 2020, Wellspect reduced  the use of ethylene oxide  (used for sterilization), an  indirect greenhouse gas, by  approximately 21%, without  compromising the sterility.
Additional reduction will  continue in 2021.
Wellspect invests in energy- saving programs to increase  energy efficiency.
The  team continually explores  possibilities to maximize the  use of renewable energy.
Additionally, working  with a certified energy  auditor, the team will map  energy consumption to  identify potential reduction  opportunities as part of  its energy audit.
Further,  the site will improve the  energy efficiency of existing  manufacturing systems by  replacement or upgrading of  energy intensive equipment  with more efficient alternatives.Wellspect   Our Johnson City site  successfully completed its  eight-year plan to replace all  20 heating, ventilation, and  air-conditioning (HVAC) units  with a high seasonal energy- efficiency units, to reduce  energy consumption by over  50% from 2016 to 2020.
Johnson City   U.S. BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessON-SITE EMISSIONS REDUCTIONSPOTLIGHT The 63,200-square-foot Dentsply Sirona facility that manufactures and distributes Endodontic products in Johnson City, Tennessee,  has an impressive track record when it comes to going green.
Since 2015, the facility, which currently has 215 employees, has been  on a mission to recycle and reuse excess materials like electronics, glass, metal, paper and cardboard, as well as save water and  electricity.
“We’ve always been conscientious of the environment both internally and externally, but we noticed that we still had so much excess  trash,” said Marcie Littleton, Technical Resource/Environmental Health and Safety Manager at the Johnson City site.
“We saw an  opportunity to create a cleaner and safer environment for both our employees and our community.”  In going green, they considered all aspects related to the operation in Johnson City and all activities used in collecting, treating,  handling and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous materials, and recycling of materials.
“We just didn’t know how much power and water we were using or the impact we were having on our neighborhood and community,”  she said.
“This helped us to realize that it’s the right thing to do.
We encourage everyone to practice recycling every day.”  Since going green, the site no longer purchases plastic cups or straws and even had the glass bottles removed from their   vending machines.
Johnson City also received ISO 14001 environmental management system certification in 2016, which means that, every year, the site  must provide evidence that it remains committed to its environmental management system and respective goals, to maintain the  certification.
“It’s a great accomplishment that we take pride in,” said Littleton.
“We are proud to be champions of this initiative for  Dentsply Sirona and to set a good example for our business partners and our community.” Johnson City   Tennessee, U.S. ELECTRICITY COST & KWH 2016 THROUGH 0.5 2 3.5 1 2.5 4 4.5 $M 1.5 31,860,960 kWh2,343,741 kWh2,720,520 kWh3,391,816 kWh3,845,400 kWh $ 192,146.41$ 190,519.00$ 189,308.00$ 217,252.00$ 286,763.2020Linear (Cost) Linear (kWh)Cost kWh YOY electricity cost reduction at our Johnson City Site, Tennessee, US  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessREDUCING WASTEWe continually seek to identify and implement best practices   in waste management, including reducing the amount of  hazardous waste generated by our production process.
We are developing a global waste reduction strategy that will  enable us to achieve our newly published waste reduction goal.
A core part of our waste reduction approach is identifying  feasible opportunities to reduce the use of single use plastic  and paper waste through innovation and leveraging technology.
Some examples of effective waste reduction initiatives that have  been undertaken at our sites include: SPOTLIGHT Our Bensheim site has been certified in accordance  with EMAS since 1996.
EMAS (Eco-Management  and Audit Scheme), is a European Union  environmental management scheme through  which companies can improve their environmental  performance.
It goes beyond the requirements of  the environmental management standard ISO 14  001 and promotes best practice in environmentally  sustainable operations.
As well as EMAS, Dentsply Sirona Germany is also  a member of the Hessian Environmental Alliance  which works to reinforce members’ responsibility  for the environment, to reduce bureaucracy and to  encourage environmental protection.
In 2015, the Bensheim site established ambitious  energy-related saving targets through the  “Learning Energy Efficiency Network Frankfurt  Energy Rhine Main” environmental agreement,  along with nine other employers in the region.
The Bensheim site sets itself targets within the  framework of Dentsply Sirona’s environmental  management system, which is published online in  the annually updated environmental statement.
One of these goals is to increase the use of  renewable electricity.
Usage at the site increased  from 55% in 2019 to 65% in 2020.
Bensheim also  achieved a 28.8 MT reduction of hazardous waste in  2019, and a 15.1 MT reduction in 2020.
Bensheim   Germany Installation   of water coolers   to eliminate  single-use   plastic waste  In-line process  piping, eliminating  manual additions  and material  losses Reduction   of production  waste through   use of digital tools  and Lean   methodology Eliminating  printing   of Instructions  for Product Use  documentsPaper   recycling  programs BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessOUR WASTE  STEWARDSHIP FIGURES  FOR 2019/2020  Specifically, several initiatives achieved success in waste  management, recycling and reuse at a number of our facilities  throughout 2020:  We switched our instructions  for use (IFU) from paper   to digital, therefore   reducing paper waste   by about 1 ton.Hanau   Germany In October 2020, we  switched to recycling all  Titanium chips, previously  an industrial waste product  generated from the milling  process at our Tokyo site.
A precious metals recycling  services provider now  collects the chips and  recycles them into other  productivity uses.
Tokyo   Japan At our 90,000 sq.
meter,  2,000-person facility in  Bensheim, Germany, we  reduced total waste from  2,066 tons in 2017 to 1,658  tons in 2019.
In 2020 it was  reduced even further to  970 tons.
Waste at the site  is divided into hazardous  and non-hazardous waste,  then classified as waste  for recycling and waste for  disposal.
In order to achieve  a significantly improved  recycling rate, waste  separation is monitored —   the rate has increased from  95.3% in 2017 to 98.2%   in 2020.Bensheim   Germany Following a change in the  cooling production process,  in 2019 and 2020 no water  consumption was needed   for the process.Ballaigues   Switzerland A program to reduce  hazardous waste saw the site  categorized as small quantity  generator in 2019 (SQG) and  then a very small quantity  generator (VSQG) in 2020.
Since the program began  in 2017, annual hazardous  waste has decreased from  1,775lb (805kg) to 335lb  (152kg) in 2020.
As a result of these  initiatives, we have also seen  a consistent trend of reduced  waste costs.Johnson City   Tennessee, U.S. We implemented several  actions to improve waste  recycling.
In manufacturing,  hard paper is now being  recycled and the recycling  stations in the rest rooms  now have more sorting  options for different waste  types such as paper and  plastic, and single use paper  cups have been replaced  with recyclable options.
Mölndal   Sweden 1 Waste is characterized in accordance with local regulatory definitions.WASTE12019 Solid (non-hazardous Waste Generated (metric tones) 5,836 4,Recycled/Reused (% of generated) 48.1% 43.8% Incinerated (% of generated) 10.3% 9.5% Energy capture (% of generated) 22.0% 26.1% Sent to landfill (% of generated) 18.2% 18.6% Universal Waste Generated (metric tones) 3 Hazardous Waste Generated (metric tones) 1,506 1,Recycled/Reclaimed (% of generated) 22.7% 21.2% Waste of energy (% of generated) 34.0% 41.0% Total Waste Generated (metric tones/$M Net Sales) 1.8 1.BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessAs standard, we regularly conduct checks to ensure that  every Dentsply Sirona product is biosafe.
An overview   of how this is applied can be found in our Safety Data  Sheets (SDS) housed in the Dentsply Sirona SDS Library.
Our design control and product development procedures focus on the reuse of standard  components.
We conduct regular reviews and evaluations on material safety including  component selection to ensure we both meet and exceed requirements set by regulatory  standards such as the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHSD).
We strive to reduce the environmental impacts of our products through design.
We recognize  the benefit associated with product developments that meet customer demand through  creation of environmentally responsible options: e.g. improved catheter coatings, recyclable  packaging and products, and products that do not involve heavy metals.PRODUCT DESIGN & LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT Examples of product design and production process  improvements from 2020 include:  Wellspect, Turkish plant:  The team managed to reduce  the number of solvents in production by improving  work processes, technologies and planning.
By the end  of 2020, the team had managed to reduce the use of  coating solution by 12%.
Wellspect, LoFric Sense catheter:  The packaging foil  for the LoFric Sense catheter was updated in 2020  with the removal of a barrier layer of aluminum oxide.
This led to a reduction in the annual carbon footprint  of LoFric production, the equivalent of driving 153,000  kilometres in a diesel car.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessWe work closely with our  suppliers to monitor and avoid  use of “conflict materials” in our  products, and seek to comply  with all applicable laws and  regulations governing importing  and exporting products and  technology and making them  available for sale.
This includes  production materials, finished  goods, capital equipment,  molds and tooling, samples  and prototypes, repaired  and returned products, and  technical information.
We expect all our business  partners to exercise due  diligence to ensure that they  adopt proper import/export  related policies, procedures  and controls within their  organizations, including proper  identification of external  partners, locations, details of  how they do business, as well as  the source locations, countries  of origin, and components of  the products.
We also expect our suppliers  to be active participants in  our Conflict Minerals program,  which seeks to verify and  eliminate the sourcing of gold,  tantalum, tin and tungsten  from the Democratic Republic  of the Congo and neighboring  states for which the profits aid  in the continued aggressions  and human rights violations in  these regions.
We expect our suppliers and  distributors to follow all external  laws as well as our internal  policies when registering  products to make them  available for sale.
Products may  only be sold into those countries  and territories authorized by our  commercial agreements.AVOIDANCE OF   CONFLICT MINERALSRegarding product end of life, we continue to follow EU legislation  — RoHSD and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) —  that mandates waste and recycling practices for our products.
As an innovative company, we launch new products or provide  software upgrades to existing equipment on a periodic basis.
Through our extended producer responsibility effort, we have  return/trade up programs for select equipment.
Equipment returns  are either refurbished and sold/donated to university or educational  organizations or other public institutions at discounted prices.
In  most cases, equipment is recycled or scrapped, in line with stringent  regulations, by authorized, certified service providers.
Finally, we discontinued manufacturing and sales of amalgam   filling materials, which contain mercury, in December 2020.
PRODUCT DESIGN & LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessDentsply Sirona recognizes the importance of water  stewardship as part of its environmental responsibility.
Our local teams have worked on the continuing process   of improving water withdrawal and discharge tracking,   and on introducing water reduction initiatives.
RESPONSIBLE   WATER STEWARDSHIP  Our water management programs include incorporating closed- loop and water quenching systems to replace once-through cooling  systems, and reducing sanitary water consumption by installing  hands-free motion sensors in restrooms.
During 2020, we made  significant progress in water stewardship at several of our sites:  We installed a new water  treatment system in 2020  that improved the water  recovery ratio from 60% to  75% brought annual water  savings of 130,000 liters.
The Mölndal site modified  its catheter coating  process.
The new process  uses a solvent with lower  environmental impact and  requires less energy, less  chemicals, and less water.
The new solvent is derived  from a renewable rather than  a fossil-based resource.
Haifa   IsraelMölndal   Sweden Water withdrawal and water discharge data for sites under Dentsply Sirona’s operational control is provided except for some leased  facilities where this data was not made available by the landlord.
Additionally, some water discharge data is estimated, based upon the withdrawal data where it was not available and there is no  significant process.
WATER12019 Water withdrawal (cubic meters) 348,492 287,Water withdrawal (cubic meters/$M Net Sales) 85.4 85.Water discharge (cubic meters) 277,363 285,BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessOur focus on sustainability, including maintaining  environmentally responsible workplaces, is an important  factor for our employees, who want to be proud to work for   a sustainable employer.
We strive to ensure that our facilities and offices are energy efficient, with strong recycling   and waste management practices in place, and we also prioritize minimizing the impact of   our sites on local biodiversity.
Recent examples of such initiatives include:  To commemorate 130 years  since its inauguration and  promote ecological diversity,  the Ballaigues team designed  and built an insect hotel  in the shape of Dentsply  Sirona’s symbol.
To create  the formation, they used  only non-living products and  untreated plant materials  — predominantly wood —  that had been recycled or  designed to complement  local biodiversity.
The  structure enables insects and  arachnids to survive through  the winter and more safely  lay eggs in the summer.Ballaigues   Switzerland A professional beekeeper  manages four colonies on the  roof of the Munich production  site, home to 160,000 bees.
The team helps maintain  the rooftop, which is well  suited for bees due to being  surrounded by trees and  marshy meadows.
During  2020, the colonies produced  approximately 180kg of  rooftop honey.
This honey is  available for teams to buy and  was also offered as Dentsply  Sirona Christmas gifts to  Key Opinion Leaders and  employees, engaging them in  our bee protection program.
Munich   Germany BENEFITING FROM   AN ENVIRONMENTALLY  RESPONSIBLE WORKPLACE  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet  Ӏ Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessBEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy Business BEYOND Ӏ 42Gender pay   parityTalent   managementHealth   & SafetyImproving oral health  and community  engagementDiversity   & Inclusion Strive to achieve global gender  parity by 2025  Leverage available talent pool   in all geographic markets  Increase female and ethnic  representation in Director+  population   Increase Employee Resource  Group (ERG) participation  Work to achieve gender pay  parity (equal pay for equal work  geographically) by 2025  Completed baseline analysis  focused on total cash and equity  compensation and plan   to assess annually  Establish annual auditing  practices, strategies and plans to  address gender pay gaps Achieve Top Decile Injury and  Illness Prevention/Avoidance Rate  by 2025  • OSHA Recordable Injury and Illness  Rate & American Chemistry Council,  similar size category member  company rate as benchmark target  (currently ~0.27) • > 75% participation on the employee  engagement survey  • Increase employee engagement results • Launch global leadership  development program  • Increase number of Leadership  Development Program  participants annually  • Deploy online learning system  available to all employees globally  • Increase number of courses  offered and average yearly  professional development hours   • Increase number of Early Career  program participants annuallyLaunched strategic, global  charitable partnership with Smile  Train in Establish a Company-wide global  social responsibility framework  in 2021  Continue to pioneer  developments in clinician  education to meet the needs   of customers  YOY increase in R&D spend  Establish a consistent global sales  training framework by end of 2021 Continuously increase Employee  Engagement  Increase Global Professional  Development Opportunities Expand Early Career  Opportunities   The COVID-19 pandemic affected people globally and, in the face   of adversity, it demanded extraordinary resilience of our employees,  our Company and our industry.
Though we all faced professional  and personal challenges, we remained steadfast in our responsibility  to support the wellbeing of people at the heart of our business: our  employees, our customers, and local communities around the world  and deliver our mission to create healthy smiles .In recognition of our ongoing work across CSR, Clinical Education,  and D&I, Newsweek and Statista named Dentsply Sirona as one of  “America’s Most Responsible Companies 2021”.
Although honored by  this recognition, we acknowledge that our work is just starting, and  have set out some ambitious goals to help us on our journey:  HEALTHY   SMILES BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessWe strive to bring out the best in people, from  employees, to patients and the dental professionals  who serve them.
Fostering an inclusive, respectful  culture and focusing on training and professional  development are key contributors.
That’s why   in 2020, we revised our People strategy, to ensure  it would continue to support our purpose —  especially during this time marked by significant  change.
Namely, we:OUR PEOPLE   EMPOWERING  Established a comprehensive talent review process to support  the Board with succession planning;  Implemented an enhanced performance development process  that promotes ongoing feedback and coaching between  managers and employees;  Launched a Global Employee Assistance Program;  Established a single, global approach to talent acquisition;  Deployed a 360-leadership assessment addressing future  behaviors required to accelerate the business strategy through  challenging times;  As part of our journey to standardize and digitize our HR  administrative processes globally, we piloted an HR Operations  Center in Europe following the launch of a center in North  America, and hired a global leader to build the HR Operations  strategy and HR infrastructure;  Reinforced a sense of shared responsibility and ownership  for employee engagement with an emphasis on culture, role  modeling and skill development; and  Offered greater flexibility for employees by introducing a Global  Flexible Work Policy.
Became signatories of the cross-sector Paradigm for Parity  partnership building on our actions to create a better, healthier  and equitable world.
You can read more about this partnership  on p.48 .
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessIn July 2020, we increased focus  on supporting our employees,  as the global pandemic took  hold, asking for ideas on how   we could better help them  through the crisis.
In the U.S., we piloted   an interactive feedback tool  used to conduct a “D&I Pulse  Check” amongst our U.S.  employees.
This allowed us not  only to test a new engagement  channel, but also to obtain  additional and confidential input  from our employees about their  D&I experiences at Dentsply  Sirona.
Most participants agreed  that their teams are diverse and  inclusive, noting both positive  experiences and opportunities  for progress.
Employees also  responded positively to the D&I  strategy, with 81% saying they  were open to D&I education.
Beyond this, we continued to  make strides in the development  and roll out of our D&I strategy  and action plan to enhance our  efforts and ensure we continue  to foster an environment where  our teams feel inspired and  empowered every day.
We have set goals to achieve  global gender parity and gender  pay parity by 2025.A DIVERSE  AND INCLUSIVE  WORKFORCE  We are committed to promoting a diverse, inclusive and  respectful culture in order to bring out the very best of our  global workforce and to encourage creativity to flourish.
To do this, we go beyond, challenging the status quo to create  a work environment that values every employee.
The key elements of our D&I Action Plan include the following:  Planning programs to develop and source diverse and early career talent,  Hiring a D&I Lead to champion the Company’s diversity and inclusion strategy,  Chartering a Company-wide D&I Council;  Evaluating current policies and processes to ensure inclusivity, including introducing enhanced paid  parental leave policy for full-time U.S. employees, effective June 1, 2021.
Our new policy offers eight  weeks of paid parental leave to full-time, benefit-eligible employees who physically gives birth to a child  and to a spouse, partner, adoptive parent, or foster parent following the birth, adoption or placement of  a child.
We continue to evaluate additional policies and processes to identify opportunities for further  inclusivity,  Enhancing awareness and understanding  to foster inclusion and address unconscious bias across all  levels of the organization;  Coaching people managers to use performance development tools to drive inclusive behaviors   and practices;  Facilitating mentorship, networking and talent development to enhance knowledge, build cross-functional  capabilities and encourage development and sponsorship of diverse, high-potential talent; and  Measuring progress, communicating regularly with employees and key stakeholders via pulse checks,  engagement surveys, and Employee Resource Groups, and seeking opportunities for our global team  to provide feedback regularly.
To remain transparent, we share feedback broadly with our teams and  highlight action plans.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessThe Council continues to increase awareness of sensitive topics and make   a positive impact on D&I priorities, driving sustainable diversity, inclusion and  equity outcomes.
Success has been noted in areas of policy enhancement,  promotion of internal diverse talent, growth of ERGs, and high engagement   in feedback sessions such as Conversation of Understanding.
The D&I Council established practical guidance,   supported by two major objectives for 2020-2021: MANAGING BIAS  CONVERSATION   OF UNDERSTANDING PROGRAMManaging bias plays a crucial  role in our D&I strategy.
We offer ongoing training  and awareness sessions for  all employees to address  unconscious bias and build  inclusivity and understanding.
In 2020 we piloted   a ‘Conversation of  Understanding’ program in   the U.S. with the aim of creating  a safe space to encourage open  dialogue and sharing.
There was  significant interest with more  than 170 employees taking part,  exceeding our goals set   for participation.
In 2020, we introduced a new  interactive eLearning course  on the topic.
It identifies and  defines various types of biases,  explains the effects of bias and  provides tools to help eliminate  it inside and outside the  workplace.
This online course  is available to all employees  around the world.
Conversation of Understanding  sessions are open to all global  employees, and due to the  success of the pilot, the program  is expanding to other regions in  2021, such as Germany,   to allow local employees to join  the conversation in their native  language and discuss   specific topics.
The key takeaway from  these conversations  has been that we must  make opportunities  to connect even more  often, with empathy  and even deeper  listening.
Conversation Champion,   Jennifer Nelson OUR D&I COUNCIL  Our D&I council, co-led by our Chief Human  Resources Officer and Chief Supply Chain Officer,  is a group of demographically and functionally  diverse employees from around the world.
The Council’s priority is increasing employee awareness of our D&I priorities and  ensuring leaders are held accountable for meeting our diversity, inclusion and  equity targets.
At the first meeting, we set out several key principles:  • The Council will have up to 20 members representing the diversity of our  Company, with the Senior Global Manager for Early Career Programs and  Diversity & Inclusion as a permanent member;  • The Council will meet monthly or more frequently as needed;  • Council members will serve two-year terms with the exception of the six  original members, who will rotate off at the end of 2021;  • The Council will promote D&I within our Company;  • The Council will review and approve requests to form Employee Resource  Groups (ERGs) and will oversee a budget to help support ERG requests.
Ensure that  employees of diverse  backgrounds can  develop, grow and  thrive at Dentsply  Sirona Create a positive  Company culture  by developing and  promoting inclusion  and allyship BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessEMPLOYEE RESOURCE   GROUPS  To help foster connections between employees around the  world, we have established Employee Resource Groups, or  ERGs. ERGs are voluntary support networks for employees  with shared backgrounds and interests.
They are open to  individuals who want to join either as a participant or ally.
DS Women and BOLD (Black Organization for Leadership &  Development) ERGs both launched in 2020.
The DS Women ERG was established to empower women to achieve their full potential, act as  a forum of support and growth through allyship and mentorship, and open channels for talent  development, and resource sharing.
It is also one of our primary advocacy groups for gender  pay parity, which is a key priority and one of the flagship goals of our sustainability strategy.
As  of December 2020, our DS Women ERG had 550 global members from 30+ nations, and 68 of  those members are in senior leadership roles.DS Women BOLD ERG aims to connect, foster and grow a tight-knit Black community and network of allies  within Dentsply Sirona globally.
The goal is to celebrate the uniqueness of its members and  enhance the organization’s cultural competence by focusing on cultural education, recruitment  and retention of Black employees.
The ERG also helps create and sustain a Black talent engine to  prepare the next generation of leaders and provide opportunities for professional development.
At the end of 2020, the BOLD ERG had 161 members across 16 countries.
BOLD In 2021, we are establishing four additional ERGs:  PRIDE , an internal community for LGBTQ+ employees and allies;  DS Early Career , dedicated to attracting, developing and retaining early   career talent;  Asia Pacific American Group , providing a platform for APAC American members  to connect;  DS Veterans , supporting service members and veterans transition to civilian work  environments; and  DS Able , making a real difference for employees with disabilities, caregivers,  those interested in learning more, and anyone who wants to help identify  opportunities for how our Company can be more inclusive.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessBuilding and maintaining an engaged workforce is  a major priority for us.
This means seeking, listening  to and acting on employee feedback, and giving  our employees the opportunity to volunteer in local  communities individually or as part of a team.
EMPLOYEE  ENGAGEMENT  We are committed to being part of the solution  to close the global gender pay gap.
We strive for  gender parity and fair representation of diverse  talent across all levels of our organization.
This includes Board-level reporting of D&I metrics,  regularly evaluating compensation practices  and rolling out D&I scorecards for Management  Committee members.
GENDER PAY PARADIGM FOR PARITYEMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT  SURVEYS In 2020 we signed the Paradigm  for Parity cross-sector diversity  commitment.
Paradigm for  Parity is a coalition of more than  130 CEOs, executives, board  members, founders and experts  dedicated to providing women  and men equal opportunity and  power, and achieving gender  parity by 2030.
We are proud  of being more aspirational and  ahead of this pledge by aiming  for 2025.We regularly provide  opportunities for our employees  to voice their thoughts and  opinions on how we can  improve the employee and  customer experience through  various channels, including  annual engagement and pulse  surveys.
We also equip our  people managers with post- survey tools, so that they can  create meaningful action plans  with their teams.
In becoming signatories to the  coalition and the goal, we pledge  to grow a diverse talent pool,  improve employee diversity  and gender balance, advocate  for women‘s advancement  in senior positions within the  Company and measure and  monitor our progress to ensure  accountability.
In 2020, on top of our annual  employee engagement survey,  we also organized a global  post-COVID return to workplace  pulse survey ( p.26 ) and   a “D&I Pulse Check” in the U.S.  (p.45 ).
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy Business BEYOND Ӏ 48EMPLOYEE   VOLUNTEERISM  We know that a core part of maintaining a happy, motivated  workforce is providing employees the opportunity to volunteer.
We firmly believe that work should be purposeful and strive  to help our employees realize this during their daily work and  through community partnerships or volunteerism opportunities.
We are proud that our employees are getting involved under the given circumstances  and supporting regional initiatives with a donation.
We are therefore pleased to be  able to show the solidarity of Dentsply Sirona — one of the largest employers on the  Bergstrasse — with the region by increasing the donation this year.
Jan Siefert, Managing Director at Dentsply Sirona in Bensheim Dentsply Sirona employees making   a difference at Christmas  Every year, Dentsply Sirona employees around the world participate in initiatives to support charities  during the festive period.
The holiday season, which can be challenging for some in normal times, was  made even more challenging in 2020 due to lockdowns, restrictions and job losses.
In response, Dentsply  Sirona employees demonstrated their generosity: Overall, we have seen positive  results from our employee  survey efforts.
Our employee  engagement participation rate  has increased by 31% since  our first global survey with  Gallup in 2018.
Of note, diverse  employees are engaged at  the same rate as non-diverse  employees.
Turnover is trending  down from similar periods (2019  and 2020) and will continue   to be monitored along with  future engagement and pulse  survey results.
We have also piloted initiatives to  improve employee engagement,  such as DS24hours, where  Dentsply Sirona’s Executive team  hosted an all-Company event to  promote the Company’s culture  and purpose.
In 24, one-hour  timeslots, executive leaders  addressed employees in a total  of 90 global locations via live  video stream with simultaneous  translation in ten languages, and  employees spoke directly to senior  leadership and asked location- specific questions.
DS24hours  garnered prizes from the Gold  Quill Awards, Stevie Awards for  Great Employers, Die Silberne  Feder, International Business  Awards, and the German Award  for Online Communication for  internal communication and  employee engagement.
Employees participated   in Alexander’s Toy Truck Inc.
for the fourth year in a row,  sending gifts to hospitalized  children.
Due to COVID-19,   all donations were made  online via the charity’s  Amazon wish list, an approach  which empowered more  employees than ever to  participate in the initiative.
In total, more than 200 bags  of toys were donated.U.S.   Dentsply Sirona leaders chose  to gift team members with  a Christmas Care Package  rather than the annual  Christmas team lunches and  dinners given the local COVID  restrictions.
Team members  were then provided with the  opportunity to donate their  Christmas Care Package to  the Wishing Tree Appeal, an  organization that provides  gifts to young adults in need.
As a result, the Company  donated approximately  $7,000.00 AUD in gifts, with  around 60 Dentsply Sirona  team members choosing to  donate their Christmas gift.
Australia   Employees set up an online  platform for the annual  donation drive as teams were  working remotely.
Despite the change in  format, employees raised  5,000 euros for the  Bensheim Community  Foundation, the biggest  donation to date.Bensheim   Germany BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessWe are committed to recruiting, hiring and  developing high-potential, qualified talent  regardless of race, color, sex, age, national origin,  disability, religion, sexual orientation, or veteran  status.
We conduct an annual Talent Development  Review process, which strengthens our talent  pipeline, aids succession planning, and increases  the visibility of diverse talent.
Additional resources planned for 2021 include  our online learning library, global mentoring  platform, Early Career programs, and Leadership  Development program.
MANAGEMENTTALENTPARTNERING TO ENSURE   A DIVERSE TALENT POOL  As part of our commitment to an equitable and  inclusive recruitment and talent retention strategy,  we will be undertaking a project to understand  diverse talent availability by role and location.
Planned in 2020 and due for implementation in  2021, the project will be done in consultation with   a diversity business consultant.
Together, we will  share the outputs with leadership and use them as  a benchmark to ensure progress and accountability.
We will use this information to build diverse  candidate sourcing strategies.
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT  Throughout 2020, we made considerable investments in the learning and  development of our employees across all levels.
We planned an Early Career  Program in the U.S., and, with its launch in 2021, focused on hiring co-ops, interns  and recent college graduates to prepare them for accelerated long-term growth  within our organization.
In April 2020, we launched our Talent Development Review  (TDR), an automated, global process to evaluate employee performance and  potential, build awareness of diverse and upcoming talent, and increase succession  preparedness.
We also provided employee and manager toolkits in multiple  languages across our global network to support employees with new workplace  norms (for example, remote work, time management and goal setting).
In October 2020, we launched our Leadership College Channel on Yammer,   a communication and social learning platform to allow managers to grow their  skills, lead others, and contribute to the business by asking questions, discussing  resources and ideas and sharing experiences and best practices.
The channel has  more than 3,500 members.
In 2021, we plan to launch a multilingual global online learning library, which all  employees can use at any time for their own learning and development.
Finally,   we are instituting a global mentoring platform to build our talent pipeline and  enhance our focus on mentoring.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessAND WELLBEING EMPLOYEE HEALTHWe understand the stresses that exist in a fast-paced, evolving  world, and recognize the role we play as employers in supporting the  mental and physical wellbeingof our employees.
This became even  more important during the pandemic.
Teams around the world launched programs and initiatives designed  to support employees‘ health and wellbeing, including the twice-a- day on-site stretching program for staff at our Manesar site — Flexi  Power Yoga, and the digital “Fit & Hungrig” (English: “Fit & Hungry”)  campaign, which brought employees together to take part in virtual  workouts, rolled out by Dentsply Sirona DACH ( p.26 ).
We launched our Global Employee Assistance Program (EAP) in  2020 as a wellbeing resource available free of charge not only for  employees but also their families.
With our Global EAP, we aimed  to provide our employees with support in handling professional and  personal matters, including life events.
The confidential, easily accessible service provides support 24/7  through a variety of channels and in multiple languages.
Our EAP  provider, Workplace Options, is an independent party bound by  professional standards regarding confidentiality, and so does not share  information shared by individuals.
It does not disclose any information  shared by individuals who have contacted the service unless the  individual poses a risk to themselves or others.
We launched the global  EAP as an extension to our existing Total Rewards program.
All our employee health and wellbeing activities are supported  by robust health and safety programs at site level, and our  Environmental Health and Safety Management System, including  policies and global standards, training, and culture.
WORKPLACE OPTIONS (OR THEIR LOCAL AFFILIATE)   SUPPORTS OUR EMPLOYEES IN ADDRESSING   A VARIETY OF ISSUES, INCLUDING: Personal Work Life events Daily LivingFamily &  Relationships • Emotional well-being • Managing stress • Anxiety and depression • Disability and illness • Substance and alcohol misuse • Addictions and compulsive  behaviors • Personal development • Improving esteem and  confidence • Sleep • Eating well• Work-life balance • Bullying and harassment  • Workplace pressure • Managing change • Workplace relationships • Careers• Pregnancy and baby • Marriage and cohabitation • Separation and Divorce • Bereavement and loss • Retirement• Consumer Rights • Health and wellness • Debt and money  management • Community resources • Legal resources• Childcare • Elder Care • Education • Juggling work and family life • Caring for others • Domestic violence and abuse BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessOUR CUSTOMERS SUPPORTING We work hard to keep our promises  as trusted partners who — through  our commitment to innovation, Clinical  Education and training via the Dentsply  Sirona Academy — empower our  customers to provide the best possible  care to their patients.
DENTSPLY SIRONA ACADEMYCLINICAL EDUCATION Dentsply Sirona has one of the largest and most comprehensive  Clinical Education programs in the dental industry.
Our Clinical  Education program helps further our mission of empowering  dental professionals with up-to-date knowledge and skills needed  to advance themselves and their practices.
This is accomplished  through a broad clinical and technical education curriculum,  including hands-on teaching, live lectures, on-demand webinars,  and courses taught by internationally known experts in all fields of  dentistry.
The Dentsply Sirona Academy is not a place, but rather  a service that can be accessed by dental professionals around the  world through various channels, both physical and digital.
We know that more healthy smiles can be achieved if our customers  are able to work at the best of their ability.
Through training  programs, courses, resources and self-directed learning, online  and at 60 training facilities, dental academies, and showrooms,  we promote intellectual curiosity, ambition and drive for highest  standards of dental treatment quality and safety.
We also focus on  the next generation of healthcare professionals — dental and dental  hygiene students.
They are the future, so we listen to, work with and  encourage them to reach their full potential.
In 2020, we provided 7,289 training courses through the Dentsply Sirona  Academy, supported by leading clinical experts and organizations,  training 1,029,000 dental professionals (up from 470,000 in 2019) from  80 countries.
More than 75% of participants were dentists, 4% were  hygienists, and nearly 20,000 were dental technicians.
Overall, the number of webinars created by Dentsply Sirona  increased from 519 in the first half of 2019 to 1,431 in the first half of  2020.
A major driver of this shift was Dentsply Sirona China.
During  2020, the market rolled out 104 webinars (8% of the global total),  and delivered high quality Clinical Education to 588,760 attendees  — 72% of the global total.
Using WeChat as the primary delivery  platform, allowed the team to reach more customers through an  existing channel.
Dentsply Sirona has made significant investments  in 59 training facilities, education centers and showrooms around the  world during 2020, including flagship education centers in Charlotte,  North Carolina, and Bensheim, Germany.
The Charlotte education center includes five training rooms, a video- conference meeting room, seven fully functional dental operatories,  two clinical training rooms for hands-on education, a chairside  CAD/CAM milling room, a laboratory milling room, a 288-person  auditorium and high-tech equipment.
A major expansion of this  facility was completed in 2021.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessCOMMITTED TO PROVIDING THE BEST  EDUCATION IN THE INDUSTRY #HEREFORYOU CUSTOMER PORTAL  The #hereforyou customer portal was created during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Hosted as a hub on the global Dentsply Sirona site,  it provided support and guidance to customers.
Along with our partners, we created and made available a wide range of Clinical Education tools and resources, including:  • Live and on-demand webinars;  • Solutions and guidance on how to protect and manage dental practices through the pandemic;  • CARES Act resources (U.S. only); and  • Interactive customer FAQs, where customers could submit questions using country-specific contact information.
During the peak of the crisis, new content for our customers was produced almost daily, particularly by our Clinical Education  teams.
Currently, the website is available for the U.S., Canada, Germany, the UK, Benelux, MENA and APAC.
>1,300   Live lectures>2,400   Webinars7,289   CoursesCountries 1,029,000   Attendees59   Training Facilities,   Dental Academies   and Showrooms BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessCUSTOMER EVENTS PROJECT VIRTUOSO  “Project Virtuoso,” a global train-the-trainer  program, was launched during the pandemic   to respond to customers’ educational needs.
Remote learning has long been a buzzword, but   the pandemic accelerated the need to deliver quality  virtual Clinical Education to our customers.
Our teams mobilized quickly, establishing technical ability and providing hosting  support and resources to enable in-market Clinical Education (CE) planners to offer  virtual CE almost immediately.
First, the teams created a catalog of 100 on-demand  courses that commercial customers could access, releasing around four courses   a day (mostly in English).
Next, in-market employees worked with local experts   to create new content to be delivered via webinars.
The final phase will be to scale  up this content creation, empowering in-market employees to identify new training  opportunities and create additional resources.
By the end of 2020, the on-demand course catalog included more than 200 courses  in English.
As new content continued to be uploaded, the number of registrations  for our webinars skyrocketed: there was an increase of 1,728% over a few weeks.
The number of webinar participants was also high, reaching up to 7,000 people  in a single webinar.
In total, more than 377,000 people globally registered for 636  Dentsply Sirona live webinars.
The Endodontics team hosted a three-day, interactive virtual event in December 2020, focused on  future trends in the dental sector.
Attended by around 150 dental professionals, the event explored  the move towards the digitization of the industry and the potential benefits for the sustainability and  accessibility of dentistry.
DS Endo Congress Following the successful establishment of DS Talk in previous years, the concept evolved into an  online event series featuring an updated format bringing together nine Key Opinion Leaders in each  session for engaging discussions.
The first session featured Key Opinion Leaders from France, Canada,  Germany, Spain, Portugal, South Africa, the U.S. and the UK.
Like the DS Endo Congress, it focused on  the potential of digitization to accelerate progress towards a more sustainable dental industry.
DS Talk with Clinical Experts As the COVID-19 pandemic moved events online,  we quickly pivoted to make DS World, our annual  global industry event aimed at dental professionals,  completely virtual.
Usually an in-person event for  thousands of dental professionals, we adapted  the entire event and hosted it on schedule in  November 2020.
At the event, we offered 70  on-demand educational courses by our most  well-respected Key Opinion Leaders across all  disciplines of dentistry and demonstrated six  surgeries by specialists.
We also showcased the  latest innovative solutions from Dentsply Sirona,  including new products such as Axeos, Schick AE  sensor, Surefil One, and Primemill, to ensure our  customers were able to work with the latest, most  innovative products.
The event had 4,575 people  attending, more than double the typical DS webinar  participation rate.
SPOTLIGHT DS World 2020   BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessDENTAL STUDENTSA fundamental part of our overarching commitment  to Clinical Education is supporting, upskilling and  empowering the next generation of dental leaders  — both students, and those at the beginning of their  careers.
This support became especially necessary  during the pandemic.
I want to thank BrownGirl RDH & Dentsply Sirona for   the scholarship.
It has given me a tremendous amount of  inspiration and self-confidence.
With less than 3%   of hygienists being African-American, being awarded   this scholarship feels like winning the lottery to me.
This scholarship brings me closer to reaching my dreams  of being a part of that 3%.
Again, thank you and I will make  you proud.
Breanna Ormon,   BrownGirl RDH grant recipient Not only will this allow us to provide our patients —   who are often among the most underserved populations   in Boston — the best oral healthcare possible, it will also  position our school as a global leader in dental education.
Individually, both our organizations have a strong  commitment to improving patient care through innovations  in dental education and research.
Collaboratively, our  two organizations can be a powerful force in driving  transformation of the dental profession as a whole.
GSDM Dean ad interim Cataldo Leone Dentsply Sirona’s  International Special Clinic  Solutions team donated  equipment for students at  universities in Mainz, Gießen,  Heidelberg, Regensburg and  Frankfurt, which allowed  students to continue their  clinical treatment studies  with minimal disruption.
The team also donated  CEREC Software licenses  online CEREC curricula to  the University of Göttingen  so students could continue  to learn how to construct  crowns, partial crowns and  bridges at home.
BrownGirl RDH (Registered  Dental Hygienists) is a U.S.  non-profit that was set up  to shift the mindset about  who can work in the dental  industry, remove cultural  and economic barriers, and  build pathways to dental  careers.
During the summer  of 2020, Dentsply Sirona in  the U.S. donated $11,000 to  the organization.
This was  enough to cover all costs  for one semester of a three- semester Dental Hygiene  degree at a community  college — tuition as well as  additional costs, such as  books and dental equipment.
Over the course of 2019  and 2020, Dentsply Sirona  has collaborated with  Boston University Henry M.
Goldman School of Dental  Medicine (GSDM) in support  of a state-of-the-art digital  dentistry technology center  at GSDM.
The leadership  of GSDM has a strong  commitment to integrating  digital technology into  their curriculum in order to  provide the highest quality  education to their students  and the best possible care  to their patients.
Dentsply  Sirona’s support allowed  the university to update and expand its treatment  center and outfit 100  patient-treatment spaces  in its predoctoral Patient  Treatment Center with  Dentsply Sirona Teneo  dental chairs.
In recognition  of its support, the center was  named in the Company’s  honor.
The new “Dentsply  Sirona Patient Treatment  Center” features the  integration of the most  advanced digital dentistry  technology and reflects  their leadership in Clinical  Education and patient care.
Germany U.S. BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessThe competition sends out a clear signal: the co-operation  between Dentsply Sirona and universities around the world  is essential to connect with the most talented dentists of  tomorrow — most especially during these difficult times.
Prof.
Dr. Rainer Seemann,   member of the GCCC judging panel CONTESTS   AND AWARDS Since 1959, Dentsply Sirona has sponsored the Student Competition for Advancing Dental  Research and its Application (SCADA) in partnership with the American Association for Dental  Research.
The competition provides opportunities for students to advance their research skills  and careers and inspires them to look for new ways to have a positive impact on dental care  and oral health.
During the last 62 years, SCADA has grown to become a globally recognized  program with more than 8,500 participants from 28 countries and more than 130 renowned  dental schools.
The 46 U.S. entrants submitted a complete portfolio for review to an international  panel of judges, and six winners were selected.
SCADA Awards The Global Clinical Case Contest (GCCC) is an annual event, designed to award outstanding  achievements in aesthetic dentistry by students from all over the world.
In 2020, the final round  — where an international jury selected the best entries from the set of clinically challenging  direct restoration cases — took place virtually, on September 23.
The first prize was awarded to  Emil Abiev, of the Moscow State University of Medicine of Dentistry.
Over 760 students from 140  global universities participated in the 2020 contest, and over 4,600 students had taken part by  the end of 2020.
Global Clinical Case Contest (GCCC)  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessIN DENTISTRYWOMENThe number of women practicing dentistry  has grown significantly over the past two  decades.
Women now account for more  than 60% of all practicing dentists in Europe.
About 35% of dentists in the US are female,  and 60% these are women under the age  of 44.
In India between 50% and 60% of all  dental school students are female.
Dentsply Sirona’s  Commitment to Engaging   Female Experts   and Speakers  At Dentsply Sirona, we are committed to engaging  the most talented experts and Key Opinion  Leaders in support of our innovation and Clinical  Education.
Currently, about one in five experts  engaged by Dentsply Sirona are female, and we  have created several female-focused Key Opinion  Leader development programs, including the  Smart Integration Award and the Female Speaker  Development Program, as well as a Key Opinion  Leader database showing our female talent.
This is a great start to diversifying our Key Opinion  Leader talent, but we have more to do to achieve  a group of Key Opinion Leaders that reflects the  diversity of our customers.
Looking to the future,  we will continue seeking input from female dental  professionals to guide our innovation efforts and help  us develop case studies, testimonials and on-demand  education content for the Dentsply Sirona Academy.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessTo celebrate and honor the steadily increasing number of women  entering the dental profession, Dentsply Sirona launched the bi- annual Dentsply Sirona Smart Integration Award Program in 2019.SMART INTEGRATION  AWARDS The award recognizes women  for their visionary treatment  concepts and ideas on  digitization in dental practices,  including how to improve  the treatment experience for  patients during diagnosis and  therapy or on how optimally  networked and efficient  workflows could look in the  practices and dental labs of  tomorrow.
By inviting innovative  female dentists and lab  technicians from around the  world to engage and grow with  Dentsply Sirona, the Award is  also designed to help create  a more gender-balanced,  progressive network of key  opinion leaders (KOLs) for the  company, to reflect the ever- evolving dental landscape.
The first Smart Integration  Award for women in dentistry  was held in 2019.
In total,   24 female dentists from seven  different countries submitted  entries, which took the form  of either a success story or a  vision for the future of dentistry  in the context of innovative  digitization, connectivity, and  smart integration.
After the  Awards ceremony, the dentists  participated in a two-day  education program — the Expert  Development Program —   to continue their journey towards  a digital and smartly connected  dental career, in partnership with  Dentsply Sirona.
The next Award program  is scheduled in the fall of  2021, and global entries can  be submitted as photos,  video, text, or sketches.
The competition recognizes  innovative approaches to  integrating technology to  advance dental care, and  broadly includes many aspects  of dentistry like: Imaging,  Treatment Centers, Digital,  Orthodontics, Endodontics,  Dental Conservation, Dental  Technology, Hygiene,  Implantology, Equipment  Management, Design and UX.
The concept of the Award intrigued me.
It was about efficient, intelligent and integrated  workflows using smart networked processes; something I was interested in.
I love the idea of  the Award being open to women from all over the world.
When a group of women get together  to discuss dentistry, the dynamic is often quite different as we open up and share more easily  about our struggles and successes.
Dr. Ginal Bilimoria, Smart Integration Award 2019 winner (New Zealand) BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessWe have more than 130 years of innovations that have helped transform dentistry  and improve oral health globally, and currently employ >650 R&D professionals  including scientists, engineers, and software developers.
Some of our landmark  innovations include introducing the first dental X-ray unit, inventing CEREC over   30 years ago, pioneering ultrasonic scaling, driving the development   of artificial teeth, and developing the first electrical dental drill.
As we look into the future, we will continue to invest in the digitization of our dental  solutions across all clinical procedures.
Our R&D activities will continue to be focused on  innovations that deliver improved clinical outcomes and better customer experience.
Over the past six years, we have made innovation investments of over $600 million.
Throughout 2020, we continued to innovate our offerings to bring best-in-class  products to our customers.Innovation is core to our DNA.
In partnership with  our customers, we develop quality products that  enable them to give their patients the best possible  treatment and care.
INNOVATIONSCUSTOMER BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessAtlantis Healing  Abutment Healing abutments help create  gingival shape that provides a  stable peri-implant environment,  resulting in a restoration with  better function and esthetics.
Atlantis Healing Abutment which  can be pre-fabricated or patient- specific, is available in a variety  of diameters, heights, and  shapes to fit restoration goals.
Axeos Axeos provides improved  hybrid imaging solutions,  including specialized 3D  imaging, increasing user  comfort and establishing  improved infection prevention  standards for patients, while  augmenting practice efficiency,  and offering procedural  expansion opportunities.
inLab Software 20.The inLab Software 20.0 has,  for the first time, extended its  range of indications to the field  of dentures and provides dental  laboratories with optimum  digital support for all relevant  process steps: from accurate  capturing of bite registration  with the inEos X5 extra-oral  scanner, to automated and  careful model analysis, to the  initial proposal of a possible  tooth set-up and the design   of the denture base.
CEREC Primemill CEREC Primemill is the latest  milling and grinding unit in  CEREC family that can produce  Zircona restorations with  precise margins and smooth  surfaces within 5 minutes using  innovative high-speed double- spindle strategies.
With a broad  range of material options from  Dentsply Sirona and other  validated partners, CEREC  Primemill makes the treatment  of multiple indications possible.
Surefil One Surefil One is a self-adhesive  composite hybrid that allows  dentists to fill cavities in  bulk, reducing the time  spent on patient procedures  and enhancing the patient  experience as well as the  practice efficiency.
This product, in combination  with two new products, Nupro Freedom  Cordless   Nupro Freedom Cordless with  SmartMode Technology allows  users to easily control the speed  and power for an effective  dental hygiene procedure and  its ergonomic cordless design  eliminates cord drag which  reduces fatigue.
DAC   Universal S This latest generation product  was developed based on  the customers’ needs , e.g.  Touch-Display, LAN interface,  guided Check & Clean.
It is now  supplemented with a complete  sterilization function, which is  particularly useful for markets  that require sterilization instead  of a disinfection of unwrapped  medical devices.
SureSmile   Software 7.This version of the software  offers an easy introduction  to the SureSmile Aligner  treatment, full control when  treating cases of varying  complexity, and allows aligners’  production in the practice.
SmartLite Pro   (curing light)   and Palodent 360  (circumferential  matrix) Improves the entire Class II  clinical procedure.
SmartLite  has excellent beam collimation  for uniform coverage of Class  II proximal box.
Palodent 360  matrix simplifies placement and  retention of matrix bands for  faster and better restorations.
Midwest Rhino XE This is a low speed air motor  that provides precision  control and quiet operation  along with easy attachment  of all modular angle  components.
Schick AE The Schick AE sensor supplies  the highest-rated intra-oral  image quality, accelerated  read-out timeline for diagnoses,  and easier data transfer for  improved patient experience  and practice efficacy.
CUSTOMER INNOVATIONS BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessIMPROVING ORAL HEALTH  IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES     We partner with and support a variety of organizations and initiatives    at a local, national and international level to bring better health and well-being   to communities all around the world.
In 2020, our philanthropic cash and   in-kind donations totalled more than $10 million.
COMMUNITY   INITIATIVES MAP  Australia $7,000 AUD donated to   the Wishing Tree Appeal   by Dentsply Sirona  Australia and New Zealand  team members.
Japan 500 food products  donated to two  food banks: Food  Bank Meguro and  Mottainai Japan.
Peru 12 Midwest RDH Low Speed Hygienist Handpieces, two High  Speed Handpieces and several thousand prophy pastes donates  to the organization, enabling clinics to provide prophylactic  treatments to hundreds of children, to prevent tooth decay.Uganda Dentsply Sirona Canada and Build  Your Smile Dental Foundation sent 19  volunteers to Uganda to undertake a  mission over eight days.
In total, the  team of volunteers extracted 811 teeth,  fabricated 120 dentures, and provided  1,423 fluoride treatments to children.Belgium Dentsply Sirona donated consumables and hand pieces  through the Leuven SMILE project , reaching 1,000 people   in vulnerable families over the course of the project’s lifetime,  as well as running 28 courses in 11 primary schools in 2020  and organizing webinars for dental students and building   a new website.
The SMILE project also hosts a dental office  where underserved people can receive dental treatments,   for which Dentsply Sirona sponsors the consumables.Brazil Dentsply Sirona supported  campaign activities for Sorrir  muda tudo, or Smiles change  everything, a campaign that  aims to promote regular  dental check-ups and  demonstrate the connection  between oral health and  overall health.
Activities  included creating digital,  traditional, and outdoor  media campaigns, rolling out  information materials and  advertising, running lectures  employees, and holding   a series of exciting events  within São Paulo.
Brazil 15,623 face masks donated to health  professionals and volunteers.Jamaica 1,000 patients treated over 10 days   at the Nine Miles of Smiles mission   in Polly Ground, Ewarton, St. Catherine.
U.S. $11,000 donated to BrownGirl RDH  — enough to cover all costs for one  semester of a three-semester Dental  Hygiene degree at a community college.
U.S. Byte’s social impact program, ByteCares, partnered  with Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE)  to support NFTE’s annual pitch challenge for students.
First-place winner, Jose Rodriguez, was awarded a grant  of $12,000 from NFTE, and runners-up Charlize Leon  and Avi Goel were awarded $4,000 each from NFTE   to start their business ideas.
U.S.  Dentsply Sirona donated 190,000 masks to  10,500 dental offices during the pandemic,  including 12,700 to Atrium Health.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessSMILE TRAIN PARTNERSHIP Smile Train is the world’s largest cleft-focused organization whose goal is to ensure that every person   has access to high-quality cleft care and the opportunity to live full and productive lives.
Through   a sustainable and local model of supporting surgery and other forms of essential care, Smile Train  provides training and financial support for the treatment of clefts, and supports medical professionals  around the world to treat cleft patients with surgery and related healthcare.
In 2020, Dentsply Sirona set out the plans for a five-year renewable partnership with Smile Train.
Launched in 2021, the partnership is driven by the shared ambition to further the provision of safe, high  quality, and expert cleft care from diagnosis through to comprehensive care delivery — using the most  advanced dental technology resources to serve the complete patient care continuum.
The overarching purpose of the partnership goes beyond donation, aiming to offer access to professional,  best in class Clinical Education and genuine engagement specifically related to cleft care.
Dentsply  Sirona is focused on making sure the benefits of our Smile Train partnership are felt for many years to  come.
As such, as well as featuring traditional partnership elements, such as financial support, provision  of free dental equipment, the collaboration will focus on global, oral healthcare training initiatives to  equip people in local communities with the skills to provide treatment and raise the standard of care to  the highest level, and using cutting edge technology and Clinical Education to aid dental and medical  professionals to deliver efficient and much needed care to patients around the world.
Some important  elements of this approach are:  • The Dentsply Sirona International Smile Train Scholars program : This program will support  in-person and virtual training and provide learning opportunities for Smile Train dental partners.
It will include an invitation to DS World 2021 for partners to grow their networks and attend  learning events and seminars.
• Clinical Education program : Providing free access to the online Dentsply Sirona Clinical  Education courses for all Smile Train oral health professionals collaborating with Dentsply Sirona;  and supporting new Smile Train Research and Training sites.
• Technology, R&D and innovation : Providing R&D and innovation know-how, including state- of-the-art technology and equipment to improve access to the best possible care for children  affected by clefts.
• Developing and outfitting treatment centers.
The Smile Train — Dentsply Sirona Colombia pilot project, designed to support  orthodontic treatment and digital protocol development for children with clefts,  took place successfully in 2021.
Dentsply Sirona donated technology, equipment and  digital solutions — in the shape of three Primescans — and worked closely with Smile  Train as we engaged on our journey to make oral care more accessible to patients  and families living in remote communities.
The speed and precision of Primescan is especially important for infant care, given  their rapid scanning speed and accuracy.
As the project develops Dentsply Sirona  and Smile Train will be able to provide innovative protocols, care and support that  minimizes the travel required by both patients and their families.
The occurrence of clefts of the lip and palate has devastating effects on the quality   of life of a child, compromising their ability to communicate and to eat properly,   as well as normal maxillofacial complex development.
These functional and  anatomical alterations can give rise to psycho-social developmental difficulties  associated with feelings of shame, anxiety, lack of social interaction and  dissatisfaction with the physical appearance of the individual.1 SPOTLIGHT Smile Train   Colombia pilot project Silva MARD, Balderrama IF, Wobeto AP, Werneck RI, Azevedo-Alanis LR.
The impact of nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate on   oral health-related quality of life.
J Appl Oral Sci.
2018 Apr 5;26:e20170145, and Zeraatkar M, Ajami S, Nadjmi N, Faghihi SA, Golkari A.
A qualitative study of children‘s quality of life in the context of living with cleft lip and palate.
Pediatric Health Med Ther.
2019 Jan 18;10:13-20.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy Business“SORRIR MUDA TUDO”  CAMPAIGN,   BRAZIL   The “Sorrir muda tudo” campaign, or “Smiles change everything,” is an annual six- month initiative started in 2019 by the major Brazilian dental industry association  ABIMO, supported by members of the dental industry including Dentsply Sirona.
Data from IBGE (The Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics) shows that  more than half the Brazilian population does not visit the dentist regularly, and  around 27 million Brazilians have never visited the dentist.
The campaign aims to  promote regular dental check-ups and demonstrate the connection between oral  health and overall health.
In 2020, Dentsply Sirona supported campaign activities including digital, traditional,  and outdoor media, such as advertisements in bus and subway stations and  shopping malls.
The campaign also involved rolling out information within offices  and factories, hosting a series of exciting events within São Paulo in some of the  city’s most prestigious locations such as Paulista Avenue and the FIESP sidewalk,  and running a series of eight lectures for Dentsply Sirona employees to learn about  the concept and act as ambassadors for the cause.
In total, over 200 employees  participated in the sessions.
LET LOVE INTERNATIONAL,  PERU   Dentsply Sirona has been working with Let Love International, a Peruvian  organization that runs dental clinics in underserved areas of Peru since 2018.
Peru has one of the highest rates of tooth decay — estimated at 90.4% of children  under 15 — and has only one dental professional per 9,000 people.
The clinics  provide dental work to children who otherwise would not have access to dental  care.
In late 2019, Dentsply Sirona donated 12 Midwest RDH Low Speed Hygienist  Handpieces, two High Speed Handpieces and several thousand prophy pastes to the  organization.
With these donations, the clinics were able to provide much-needed  prophylactic treatments to hundreds of children, in order prevent tooth decay.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessNINE MILES OF SMILES,   JAMAICA   Dentsply Sirona has been working with Nine Miles of Smiles (NMS), a Canadian charitable  organization that works to provide free dental care to underserved communities in Jamaica, since  2019.
Led by Ken Cooper, a Dentsply Sirona employee whose home country is Jamaica, the team  went back for a second year in 2020.
Once there, the team donated artificial teeth, impression  material, anesthetic material, and restorative material for the 10-day NMS mission in the rural  town of Polly Ground, Ewarton, St. Catherine, and Walkers Wood, St. Ann.
They were granted  permission to use the home of the famous Walkerswood Jerk seasoning factory as a clinic.
Nine Miles of Smiles was created by a dental hygienist, Kimberly Daley, who had been helping   the Jamaican people for years before Ken’s arrival.
The mission involved extractions, manufacturing of dentures, cleaning, oral health education  and fillings.
In total, the team treated approximately 1,000 patients.
There is still more work to  do: some dental impressions were taken in February 2020 for dentures to be made by students  of George Brown College.
After a delay due to the pandemic, new students will soon travel to  Jamaica to insert and fit the dentures — the final step in the journey to healthy smiles.
Completion  of this project is expected in late 2021 or early 2022.
BUILDING SMILES,   UGANDA   Dentsply Sirona Canada is a proud supporter of the Canadian Build Your Smile Dental Foundation  that runs dental-care missions in Uganda.
The missions give local people access to dental  care, free of charge.
Building on the 2019 mission, 19 volunteers travelled to Uganda to undertake  a mission over eight days in 2020.
Churches, school buildings and classrooms served as makeshift  dental practices and labs.
With much of the dental equipment for the mission donated by Dentsply  Sirona, the team of volunteers:  • Extracted 811 teeth  • Fabricated 120 dentures  • Filled 29 cavities  • Provided 69 patients with dental hygiene  • Placed 20 implants  • Provided 1,423 fluoride treatments to children  • Saw 2,034 smiles  The team consisted of dentists, denturists, assistants, hygienists and dental students and support  professionals from many different countries and nationalities.
The team has touched the lives of so many people throughout the year.
We thank you for all  that you continuously do for the People of Jamaica.
Hugh Graham, a Member of Parliament in Jamaica We worked so well together as a team that we were able to help a maximum number of  patients.
It was great to see how our materials and equipment proved themselves in this  endurance test.
Nicole Hieronymus, Director Lab Global CE and KOL Management, who volunteered   on the mission BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy Business BEYOND Ӏ 64BYTE: NFTE (NETWORK  FOR TEACHING  ENTREPRENEURSHIP)  Byte, a recent Dentsply Sirona acquisition, has an active social impact program:  ByteCares.
The program provides free access to oral care and promotes educational  and career development.
As part of this, the program provides support to  underserved students in the U.S. who are learning entrepreneurship skills.
ByteCares partnered with Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE)   to support its annual pitch challenge for students, where students compete for  a grant to start their business idea.
The event started with a keynote from Kerry  Washington, who served as Byte’s Creative Advisor, to help inspire and build their  confidence.
Byte’s Founder, Scott Cohen, sat on the panel of judges, which selected  Jose Rodriguez as the winner from 40 finalists.
Rodriguez was awarded a grant  of $12,000 from NFTE to help his company, Tasium, which produces specialized  clothing for individuals on the autism spectrum.
Byte also gave the event’s keynote  speech, and throughout the event educated attendees about the association  between confidence, oral health, and healthy smiles.
SMILE PROJECT IN LEUVEN,  BELGIUM   Dentsply Sirona’s long-standing participation in the Leuven SMILE project continued  throughout 2020, with the donation of consumables and hand pieces.
In total,  the project has reached 1,000 people in vulnerable families over the course of the  project’s lifetime, running short courses in primary schools (28 courses in 11 schools  in 2020), organizing webinars for dental students, building a new website, and  raising awareness of the importance of good dental hygiene.
The SMILE project also  hosts a dental office where underserved people can receive dental treatments, for  which Dentsply Sirona sponsors the consumables.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles  Ӏ Healthy BusinessBEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business BEYOND Ӏ 66We believe a healthy business   is built through responsible,  transparent practices.
To us, this  means the effective integration  of Environmental, Social and  Governance (ESG) factors into  risk management processes  such as our Business Continuity  Planning, and an honest  approach to communicating our  strengths and weaknesses.
We adhere to the highest ethical  standards in all our practices,  and ensure we comply with all  the relevant laws and regulations  that govern our interactions with  healthcare professionals.
On an  annual basis, Dentsply Sirona  performs an enterprise risk  assessment to identify, prioritize  and respond to the main risks  facing the business.
Dentsply  Sirona reviews ESG factors as  a part of the risk universe.
The  compensation of some senior  leaders within Dentsply Sirona is  tied to ESG factors.
We are proud of the reputation  we have built and the trust  we have earned amongst  our stakeholders, and work  to maintain it through strong  and effective corporate  governance.
This allows us to  stay focused on our mission to  improve the quality   and accessibility of oral   health worldwide.
Central to our promise around  being a responsible business  is ensuring the integration of  sustainability factors into our  processes.
This is also critical  to be able to understand the  needs of our stakeholders and  align our business practices to  their priority issues.
In 2020,  we amended the Charters of  the Corporate Governance and  Nominating Committee and   the Human Resources Committee  to provide explicit oversight of  ESG matters.
Additionally, as  of the end of 2020, no material  areas of misalignment with key  shareholders with respect   to Governance have   been identified.
HEALTHY   BUSINESS BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessCORE POLICIES   AND PROCESSES To ensure our business is set on a  solid foundation, we have several core  policies and processes in place that  we believe are essential to maintaining  ethical and responsible operations.
These policies are under continuous  review to ensure they are fit for  purpose and meet or exceed our  regulatory requirements.
Our current  policies include the following:  1 The WorldAware (Crisis24) system has been implemented globally to assist in risk identification and management, including those related to severe weather events and other climate-related risks.
Attestation for UK   Modern Slavery Act;  California Transparency  in Supply Chain Act;  Australian Modern Slavery  Act and New South Wales  Modern Slavery ActCorruption   and   Anti-Bribery  Policy Anti-Kickback  Statute   Policy Anti-Money  Laundering   Policy Blacklist   Screening  Procedure Business Gifts   and   Entertainment  PolicyBusiness   Partner   Code of Conduct  Code of Ethics   and Business  ConductClinical  Competition   and Contest   PolicyEthics and  Compliance  Mission and  CharterDentsply Sirona  Disciplinary  Framework   North America Hotline  Whistleblower  System Policy Insider   Trading   Policy International   Trade   Compliance   Policy  OFAC   Recusal Policy   for US Persons Investigation   and   Case Resolution  Protocol Records   Retention   Policy US Grant   Policy Dentsply Sirona  Data Privacy  Policy Dentsply Sirona  Internal and  External Privacy  Statements WorldAware  (Crisis24)   systemBEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessDentsply Sirona’s Board has 10 members  as of December 2020, including our CEO,  Don Casey, and Non-Executive Chairman   of the Board and Executive Committee  Chairman, Eric K.
Brandt.
The Board  is charged with Company oversight,  balancing the interests and needs of our  many stakeholders, and ensuring that  business decisions align with our purpose,  mission and vision.
The Board oversees   the management of ESG risks and factors.
Our Board members have the expert skills, wide-ranging experience  and diverse backgrounds necessary for understanding and  responding to the needs of our stakeholders.
Our commitment to  diversity and inclusion includes recruitment of diverse candidates  throughout our business, including the Board and management.
As of December 2020, 50% of Board members were women   and/or members of ethnically diverse groups.
Our Board has five committees: BOARD COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITYBOARD Corporate  Governance  and Nominating  Committee Audit and   Finance  Committee Executive  CommitteeHuman   Resources  Committee Science and  Technology  Committee  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessEMPLOYEE HEALTH   & SAFETY (EHS)  The health and safety of   our employees is our greatest  priority.
We have implemented  health and safety programs at  site level and are now actively  focused on developing,  implementing and continuously  improving our approach at  Corporate level.
We also began  a robust improvement process  to update the Environmental  Health and Safety Management  System, including policies   and global standards, training,  and culture.
In 2020, our global Injury  and Illness Incident Rate  (measured to align with U.S.  Occupational Safety and  Health Administration [OSHA]  criteria), was 0.53, and our Lost  Workday Case Incidence Rate  (also measured in accordance  with OSHA criteria) was 0.36  — a 37% and 32% improvement  on last year respectively .
We  remain committed to protecting  the health, safety and wellbeing  of our employees and to  preserving this positive trend.
We have implemented  environmental, health and safety  programs at site level, and we  are updating our Corporate  EHS Standards aligned with  recognized management  system frameworks.
At present  two of our 35 manufacturing  plants, major distribution  centers and major office  facilities hold current OHSAS  18001, ISO 45001 or equivalent  certifications.
Beginning in 2021 and moving  forward, EHS Front Line  Leadership training will be  implemented globally, to  develop and support EHS as a  core value and important part  of our culture.
We are incredibly proud of the  progress we have made globally  as we continue to work to  preserve the health and safety  of our employees.
Starting at the  end of August 2019, our Implant  site at Mölndal achieved a record  zero accident period of 490 days.
Global Injury and Illness Incident Rate 0.36Lost Workday Case Incidence Rate 0.Improvement   on last year37%  Improvement   on last year32%  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessGlobally, the key focus around EHS in 2020 was preventing the spread of COVID-19.
As a result of   our robust COVID-19 risk management processes there was no spread of the virus identified within   our facilities.
Particularly effective initiatives took place at the following sites:We also focused on several other EHS initiatives throughout our sites, including at Hasselt,  in Belgium.
Our focus on safety was highlighted at the end of 2020 by the facility achieving  1,460 days without a single reported accident.
This was helped by providing equipment for our  employees, such as mats for those in the shipping department to improve ergonomics, and  tables with adjustable heights to help our employees’ posture and reduce back pain.
Despite the pandemic, we still managed to drive several exciting, non-COVID-19 related,   EHS initiatives at our Ballaigues site, which limited accidents during 2020 to just three:   We piloted an EHS e-learning module for around 750 of our employees   in Ballaigues  via our global Learning Management System.
By the end of 2020, we had  trained 541 employees on this EHS module.
We also trained 468 employees for GMP  (Good Manufacturing Practice).
We ran several classroom trainings, including 30 people for electrical basics (~16-hour  training); 56 people for chemical products (approx.
20 hours); and 103 people for  LOTO3 training (approx.
10 hours).
We organized ~200 technical trainings with dedicated, expert trainers to ensure  product quality.
We implemented a “Near Miss” process to catch potential accidents before they  happen — an initiative that was previously rolled out at our Johnson City  site.
This process entails a daily review with the EHS department together with the  manufacturing teams, during which the teams discuss detected accident risks.
The  teams then create action plans to prevent the risk.
The process overall instills a  preventive approach among employees and teaches them to be active drivers of safety  measures and behaviors on-site.
We increased the provision of ergonomic equipment on-site.
At our Hasselt  site in Belgium, our focus on safety was highlighted at the end of 2020  by the facility achieving 1,460 days without a single reported accident.
This was helped  by providing equipment for our employees, such as mats for those in the shipping  department to improve ergonomics, and tables with adjustable heights to help our  employees’ posture and reduce back pain.EHS PROCESSES AND  TRAINING AT OUR  GLOBAL FACILITIES  As employees at our facility built their understanding of the importance of reporting “Near Misses,”  rather than waiting to report injuries after they occur, we observed a positive culture shift.
Now, the  safety committee conducts daily reviews and monthly walk-throughs in each department, where they  proactively identify potential risk areas.
The teams also regularly select Job Hazard Analyses2 (JHAs)  and Lock Out-Tag Out3 procedures (LOTOs) at random throughout the year, to ensure these are fit for  purpose and check if any reviews are needed, following a monthly inspection checklist and scorecard.SPOTLIGHT Johnson City   Tennessee, U.S. What is a JHA?
A Job Hazard Analysis (JHA) is a process that integrates EHS principles and practices into a particular task.
A JHA will  break down each step of a required job, identifying potential hazards, risks and hazard preventive measures to ensure the job can be  conducted safely.
What is LOTO?
Lock Out, Tag Out (LOTO) is a safety procedure used to ensure that machines are properly shut off — “isolated and  rendered inoperative” — before any maintenance or repair work starts.
The isolated power sources are then locked, and a tag is placed  on the lock identifying the worker who placed it.
The worker then holds the key for the lock, ensuring that only they can remove it and  start the machine once repair work has been completed.
This prevents the accidental start-up of a machine while it is in a hazardous  state or while a worker is in direct contact with it.
Source: The control of hazardous energy (lockout/tagout)  - 1910.147,   U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration3We rapidly implemented  a new safety process as  the pandemic took hold —  something we have now  retained as best practice at  our largest site.
SAFEDI, or  Safe Distance Control,   is a tracker that flashes to  promote keeping a safe  distance from employees  during the pandemic, but  also from machinery.Bensheim   Germany The local Health Department  presented the site with  an award for its COVID-19  prevention program,  recognizing it as best  practice within the region.
Mexicali   Mexico The team swiftly revised  and adapted our processes  and was able to keep the  on-site contamination  number to zero.
An external  audit led by the Swiss State  Secretariat for Economic  Affairs confirmed the quality  of the measures established  and the accuracy of their  implementation on site.Ballaigues   Switzerland BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business Our cross-functional Ethics  and Compliance Committee  consists of members of our  executive leadership team and  other functional leaders.
The  committee works with our Chief  Compliance Officer in support  of the Compliance program to  ensure that issues are identified  and addressed using a risk- based approach.
Under this  committee’s charter, our Ethics  and Compliance initiatives demonstrate Dentsply Sirona’s  unwavering commitment to our  core values which set behavioral  expectations for employees,  business partners and industry  consultants.
Ultimately,  this proactive approach to  managing the Company’s ethics  and compliance program helps  ensure a sustainable future   for our Company.ETHICS AND   COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCTWe are proud to be home to reputable  brands across consumables, equipment,  technology, and specialty areas.
With   an unparalleled commitment to research  and development in dentistry, we have a  long-standing history and reputation of  ethical business practices throughout   the global community.
Through frequent,  clear communications and interactive  training, we keep our employees and  business partners informed on the  principles of being a responsible business.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessOur Code of Ethics and  Business Conduct  sets out  guiding principles for the  conduct of business that  must be followed by everyone  who does business on behalf  of Dentsply Sirona, and  establishes the expectations  for how we operate globally.
It outlines expectations for  uncompromising integrity and  compliance with all laws and  regulations when it comes   to customer, supplier, key  opinion leader and government  official interactions.
It also provides guidance on  identifying, mitigating and  managing a wide range of  risks, and underscores our  commitment to our employees  and communities around the  world.
Supervisors and managers  are responsible for ensuring  their teams comply with the  Code, and all employees are  responsible for ensuring they  are able to recognize potential  compliance issues and to seek  the appropriate advice from  subject matter experts regarding  any issues.
The Code is reviewed annually  by the Ethics and Compliance  Committee as well as the Board,  and training is administered  annually to all Dentsply Sirona  employees.
Supporting this Code are numerous policies  and procedures which provide more detailed  guidance on a variety of topics, such as: CODE OF ETHICS   AND BUSINESS CONDUCT ETHICS AND  COMPLIANCE PROGRAM We continue to evolve our Ethics and Compliance program in response to changes in our  business structure and changes in laws across the world.
Below is a list of the Codes, Policies and  Procedures that were updated in 2020.
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct : The Code was completely revised with new sections  as well as links to related policies and frequently asked questions.
Additionally, an Executive  Overview of the code is now available in 18 languages   Anti-Money Laundering Policy: We clarified the Red Flags section of the policy.
Hotline/Whistleblower System Policy:  We updated our Whistleblower policy in light of  Australia’s new data privacy and whistleblower protection laws.
Records Retention Policy:  We revised this policy to include Human Resource updates as well  as retention periods for calendar entries   International Trade and Customs Compliance Policy:  We added trade compliance terms and  responsibilities to this policy to increase awareness within the organization and communicate  the potential consequences of non-compliance.
These terms included Tariff Classification,  Customs Valuation, Country of Origin and Restricted Party Screening.
Gift and  Entertainment  Policy Ethical   Customer  Interaction   Policy Global Key  Opinion Leader  Policy  $0   Monetary losses  as a result of  legal proceedings  associated with  corruption and  bribery in 2020What is the  Ethics and   Compliance  hotline?
A service that enables  employees and third parties to  report malpractice, unlawful  or unethical behavior within  the workplace in situations  when they don’t feel  comfortable with reporting  it directly to their manager,  senior manager or HR Anti-Kickback  Policy Corruption   and anti-bribery  policy Ethics   and compliance  hotline  BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessWe also run regular trainings on the following topics:  Anti-Corruption & Anti-Bribery   Export Compliance   Confidential Information & Insider Trading   Anti-Trust & Competition Law   Privacy & Data Protection   Third Party Compliance It sets standards that ensure  employees, or any other party  working on our behalf, do not  unduly influence or even give  the perception of impropriety in  their interactions with healthcare  professionals and organizations.
Customer decisions about which  product to buy should be based  on the quality and efficacy of the  products and the best interests  of their patients, and we work   to support them in making   those decisions.
We are proud to go beyond  strict legal regulations to  follow the highest ethical  standards when interacting  with healthcare professionals  and institutions, and disclose  the total annual amount of  monetary losses as a result of  legal proceedings associated  with false marketing claims.
We ensure that our customer interactions are responsible and  adhere to strict guidelines.
Our Ethical Customer Interaction  Policy requires that all interactions with medical and dental  professionals are compliant with applicable laws and  regulations, as well as our own values.
We mandate regular training  on this policy to all employees  who interact with healthcare  professionals including our  entire sales and marketing  teams.
The training is based  on the ADVAMED Code, which  formed the foundation of the  Ethical Customer Interaction  Policy, and includes specific  guidance on adhering to the  U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute, the  Physician Payments Sunshine  Act (Open Payments), and other  transparency laws worldwide.
TOPICS 2018 2019 Total amount of  monetary losses as  a result of legal pro- ceedings associated  with false market- ing claims ($)0$ 0$ 0$BUSINESS PARTNER CODE OF CONDUCT We evaluate a subgroup of our suppliers each year.
Our overall approach is divided into four steps: 1.
Supplier selection: Each year Dentsply Sirona chooses a selection of our suppliers to conduct an in-depth risk assess- ment on Selected Suppliers.
Once a supplier has been through the assessment process, they will be re-assessed on a  rotational basis determined by their profile.
2.
Supplier questionnaire: Each year Dentsply Sirona distributes a questionnaire to the selected suppliers.
This question- naire is designed to obtain information regarding the social, ethical, and environmental performance and management  systems of those organization.
3.
Risk assessment: Dentsply Sirona conducts an in-depth risk assessment on each selected supplier.
This risk assessment  combines information from multiple sources and allows us to evaluate the supplier against one of four risk profiles.
4.
On-site assessment: Depending on the outcome of the risk assessment, Dentsply Sirona may request an on-site  assessment to confirm findings.
Upon conclusion of the annual assessment, all suppliers will receive their Responsible  Procurement Scorecard and recommendations for improvement.
New suppliers should be aware of this policy, and their obligation to comply with it, through the incorporation of this  policy in Dentsply Sirona’s General Terms and conditions of purchase.
All new suppliers will be integrated into the annual  assessment cycle, as outlined above.ETHICAL CUSTOMER INTERACTIONOur Business Partner Code  of Conduct  defines the  expectations for all business  partners (Distributors,  Consultants and Suppliers),  ensuring that we partner with  businesses which share our  values and desire to conduct  business in an ethical and  lawful manner.
We maintain a  stringent process to evaluate  our suppliers and ensure each  supplier complies with our high  ethical and legal standards.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business CYBERSECURITY To mitigate the risks posed  by cybersecurity incidents  and cyber-attacks, we have  developed a program led  by Dentsply Sirona’s Chief  Information Officer and Director  of Cyber Security.
The intent of  this program is to protect the  confidentiality, integrity, and  continued availability of our  data and systems.
Additionally,  the program ensures  ongoing compliance with the  various external regulatory  requirements related to data  privacy and security.
This program includes a  cybersecurity incident response  plan and a suite of policies and  standards that align with various  cyber control frameworks  including ISO27001, COBIT  and NIST.
Different elements  of these controls are evaluated  annually by multiple third-party  information security firms and  our controls are adjusted as  needed.
All global IT staff and  contractors receive training  on these policies annually.
Additionally, all internal system  users receive annual training  on information security and  certain business functions with  access to critical data elements  receive continual anti-phishing  assessments and training.
HUMAN RIGHTS In line with the UN International  Labor Organization’s  Declaration on Fundamental  Principles and Rights at  Work, we support freedom  of association and the  effective recognition of the  right to collective bargaining,  the elimination of forced  or compulsory labor, the  abolition of child labor and the  elimination of discrimination in  respect of employment.
Dentsply Sirona supports global  efforts to address the issues of  exploitation, slavery, and human  trafficking through internal  policies as well as through direct  actions with business partners  in our supply chain.
We expect  all employees and business  partners to fully comply with  the California Transparency in  Supply Chain Act of 2010 and  the UK Modern Slavery Act of  2015 , the Australian Modern  Slavery Act, the New South  Wales Modern Slavery Act, and  the Conflict Minerals provisions of  the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.
The Board and the Audit and  Finance Committee oversee our  management of cybersecurity  risk.
Our Chief Information  Officer provides regular  updates on this program at  multiple points throughout  the year to the Board and the  Audit and Finance Committee,  including updates on cyber  risk management governance  and the status of cybersecurity  control strengthening projects.
The Audit and Finance  Committee regularly briefs   the full Board on cybersecurity  issues, and the Chief Information  Officer provides quarterly   and ad-hoc briefings on   our cybersecurity program.
Responding to the fast-evolving  technology landscape, we  also continue to adapt our  cybersecurity protocols and  processes.
Our Privacy Policy  outlines the different types of  personal data we collect, the  legal grounds for doing so, and  how it is used.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business PRODUCT SAFETYIn 2020, we obtained 12 510K clearances.
A 510K is a premarketing submission made to the FDA to  demonstrate that the device to be marketed is safe and effective, or substantially equivalent (SE) to a legally  marketed device that is not subject to premarket approval (PMA).
We voluntarily conducted one significant product recall in 2020.
The product recall was notified to FDA and  has been completed.
It pertained to one of our urinary catheter products: a very small number of units were  potentially deformed.
PRE-CLINICAL &  CLINICAL TESTING  Dentsply Sirona develops and licenses numerous medical devices  for use in dental care applications.
We strive to develop innovations  that represent significant improvements to the status quo.
Whenever  possible, Dentsply Sirona uses in-vitro or benchtop methods that   do not require testing on animals.
Prior to commercializing innovative products, Dentsply Sirona often  utilizes data from human clinical tests.
The Company conducts all  studies with human subjects in a manner that protects the safety  and rights of patients and investigators.
In addition to protecting  the rights of individuals, including confidentiality, we comply with  regulatory requirements of the countries in which studies are  conducted and those in which regulatory submissions take place.
Its practice ensures that controls are in place and followed to protect  the integrity of the study results.PRODUCT SAFETY PROGRAM  Our Product Safety Program includes the following:   A Complaints Management program that collects, monitors and investigates product complaints.
A robust Post-Market Surveillance Process in place for each product group, to ensure compliance  with applicable PMS requirements.
A Risk Management program that covers design, manufacturing, and post-market surveillance.
An extensive product testing program used throughout the lifecycle of the product, that includes  design, validation and verification, in-process and finished product testing.
A Quality Management System bespoke to each manufacturing entity, which governs safety,  quality and compliance   A Quality Management System-related training program where personnel involved in R&D,  manufacturing and quality control are trained to carry out their responsibilities.
Our facilities are certified as appropriate to ISO 13485, EU Medical Device Directive (MDD), EU Medical  Device Regulation (MDR), MDSAP (Medical Device Single Audit Program), and we comply with FDA QSR  820 as well as other country-specific regulatory requirements.
The number of  certifications to MDR  will significantly  increase over 2021.
Sites Certified to ISO 13485/9001: 34   Sites Certified to MDD: 24   Sites Certified to MDR: 2  CERTIFICATIONS List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical  Products database [HC-MS-250a.2]Zero cases were reported in 2020.
Fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User  Facility Device Experience database (#)  [HC-MS-250a.3]Zero fatalities in 2020.
FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Man - ufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type (#) [HC-MS-250a.4]Zero enforcement actions.
FDA observations resulting from facility inspections (#) In 2020, three observations were received from  the FDA.
All have been addressed to completion.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business ACCESS &  AFFORDABILITY We have multiple programs  in place to support product  accessibility.
In low-income  countries (LICs) and lower- middle-income countries  (LMICs), we operate with a  different price list for our main  established and older product  lines, providing prices below our  regular price level in developed  core markets.
In terms of how price  information for each product  is disclosed to customers or  agents, we communicate all  updates on price information  to our customers & distributors  electronically, six to eight  weeks in advance of the  change.
Changes include a new  price book or an amendment  to contracts.
Further, each  customer receives an individual  price list.POLITICAL  INVOLVEMENT In 2020, Dentsply Sirona did  not use corporate funds for  political spending or lobbying  on political issues.
In line with  our policy, no Company funds  or other Company assets may  be contributed for political  purposes without the prior  review and consent of our  General Counsel.
We do not have  a political action committee.
In the U.S., Dentsply Sirona is a  member of various dental trade  associations, such as the Dental  Trade Alliance (DTA),   an association that provides  dental equipment, supplies,  materials and services to  dentists and other oral care  professionals.
The DTA’s core  purpose is to enhance member  success and increase dental  demand.
From time to time the  DTA may engage in lobbying  regarding legislation that is of  interest to its members.
On December 31, 2020,  Dentsply Sirona acquired Byte.
This disclosure does not take  into account activities that   may have been conducted   by Byte in 2020.
Wherever possible,   our products did not see   an increase in price during  2020.
Overall our ratio of  weighted average rate of net  price increases for our products  to the annual increase in the U.S.  Consumer Price Index during  2020 was 0.7% : 1.4%.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy Business REPORT INDICESAPPENDIX Dentsply Sirona  2020 Sustainability  Fact Sheet Dentsply Sirona  2020 Environmental  ScorecardSASB INDEXSASB CODE METRIC PAGE/COMMENT  ACCESS AND AFFORDABILITY HC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all products)  to the annual increase in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexHC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each product is disclosed   to customers or to their agentsPRODUCT SAFETY  HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human  Medical Products database HC-MS-250a.3 Fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA Manufacturer and  User Facility Device Experience database (#) HC-MS-250a.4 FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current  Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type (#) ETHICAL MARKETING  HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings  associated with false marketing claims ($) HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use   of products PRODUCT LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT  HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human  health considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet  demand for sustainable products HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for take-back and reused, recycled,  or donated, broken down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2)  supplies SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT  HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier 1 suppliers’ facilities  participating in party audit programs for manufacturing and product  quality HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of  critical materials BUSINESS ETHICS  HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings  associated with bribery or corruption HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care  professionals BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessREPORT INDICESAPPENDIXTCFD INDEX TCFD RECOMMENDATION PAGE/REFERENCE  GOVERNANCE  Disclose the organization’s  governance around  climate-related risks and  opportunities.
a)  Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks  and opportunities CDP C1.1  CDP C1.1b b)  Describe management’s role in assessing and managing  climate-related risks and opportunities CDP C1.2  CDP C1.2a  STRATEGY  Disclose the actual and  potential impacts of climate- related risks and opportunities  on the organization’s  businesses, strategy, and  financial planning where such  information is material.a)  Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the  organization has identified over the short, medium, and  long termCDP 2.2a  b)  Describe the impact of climate-related risks and oppor- tunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and  financial planningCDP C3.1  CDP C3.5  c)  Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy,  taking into consideration different climate-related sce- narios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.
RISK MANAGEMENT  Disclose how the organization  identifies, assesses, and  manages climate-related risksa)  Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and  assessing climate-related risks CDP 2.2  b)  Describe the organization’s processes for managing  climate-related risks CDP 2.2  c)  Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and  managing climate-related risks are integrated into the  organization’s overall risk management  METRICS AND TARGETS  Disclose the metrics and  targets used to assess and  manage relevant climate- related risks and opportunities  where such information is  material.
a)  Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess  climate related risks and opportunities in line with its  strategy and risk management process b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risksC5.1a  C6.1  C6.3  c)  Describe the targets used by the organization to  manage climate-related risks and opportunities and  performance against targetsC4.1c  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS All statements in this report that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute “forward-looking statements.” These statements represent current expectations  and beliefs, and no assurance can be given that the results described in such statements will be achieved.
Such statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks,  uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in such statements, many of which are outside of our control.
Furthermore,  many of these risks and uncertainties are currently amplified by and may continue to be amplified by or may, in the future, be amplified by, the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”)  pandemic and the impact of varying private and governmental responses that affect our customers, employees, vendors and the economies and communities where they operate.
For a written description of these factors, see the section titled “Risk Factors” in Dentsply Sirona’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 and  any updating information in subsequent SEC filings including the Company‘s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ending June 30, 2021.
No assurance can be  given that any expectation, belief, goal or plan set forth in any forward-looking statement can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such  statements which speak only as of the date they are made.
We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report  any events or circumstances after the date of this press release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
BEYOND Ӏ Our Business Ӏ  Our approach to managing sustainability Ӏ COVID-19 response Ӏ  Healthy Planet Ӏ  Healthy Smiles Ӏ  Healthy BusinessTAKING  ACTION FOR  A BRIGHTER  WORLD CONTACT DETAILS  Dentsply Sirona Global Headquarters   13320-B, Ballantyne Corporate Pl   Charlotte, NC 28277   USA Email: Corporate.Communications@dentsplysirona.com