2019 corporate sustainability report 
for complete reporting, visit chevron.com/sustainability     
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 the human energy company
 
2019 sustainability highlights 
protecting the empowering getting results 
environment people the right way 
established four goals 
to reduce net greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions by 2023 ¹ 
lower oil net GHG intensity 
5–10%
 
lower gas net GHG intensity 
2–5%
 tthehe fifirrstst iinntteerrnnaatitioonnaall
 
ooiil al annd gd gaas cs coommppaanny wy wiitthh 
a Ha Huummaan Rn Riigghhttss 
DDeeffeenndederrss SSttaatteemmeenntt
 
lower flaring intensity 
25–30%
 
lower methane emissions intensity 
20–25%
proven commitment to 
transparency in reporting 
free cash flow yield (LTM) ⁴awarded 2019 
S&P 500 sectorsBest Places to Work for 
People with Disabilities 
8% 
6% 
S&P 5004% Based on 2016 emissions levels 1 
$27B+
 2%  Based on volume and rate of CO₂ injection 2
chevron spent $27 billion 
on goods and services methane emissions intensity 
0% in 2019, contributing to the 
global economy in the permian basin ³ tonne CO₂e/MBOEPermian average 
an industry leader in flaring 
reduction in the permian basin On the cover: We believe that together we can solve some of the world’s most complex challenges. Our partnership with minority-owned businesses is an example of that, spending more than $3 billion since 2015. Julian Romero (right), a steam produc­tion technologist at Chevron, partners with Megan McCormick (left) and Ashleigh Pryor from McCormick Biological. They use technology to evaluate and mitigate the impact on wildlife in areas where we operate in the San Joaquin Valley business unit in Bakersfield, California. 
we carried out more than 
124 engagements with investors
 
This page:  These data are as of February 20, 2019, and stakeholders in 2019 
and exclude spend that is ultimately shared with our partners. 0 2 4 
 3 Source: Methane emissions intensity Permian Basin data  based on EPAGHGRP (2018 data). Includes 68 producers who report to the GHGRP program.
update to  
climate change 
resilience
a framework for decision making
February 2019
 4  Data provided by Siblis Researchdeveloped one of the world’s 
largest integrated carbon  
capture and storage projects ²  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 a message from our chairman 
and chief executive officer
 
Above: Michael K. Wirth, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, at 
Chevron’s headquarters in California. 
At Chevron, we work every day to provide the energy that makes modern life achievable for billions of people around the world. Affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy fuels human progress, empowering tremendous advancement in living standards by helping people enjoy healthier lives, achieve education, and pursue economic opportunities for themselves and their families. As I write this letter, the coronavirus pandemic is challenging the health of millions of people and the economic engine that sustains our way of life. Just as we have done in the face of past adversity, Chevron is working alongside our partners to confront and overcome the effects of the pandemic. During this difficult time, employees have demonstrated our Chevron Way values, proving why people have always been at the heart of our company. From rig workers and shipping mariners to refinery engineers and service station managers, the people of Chevron are delivering the energy needed to power homes and hospitals, transport medical patients and supplies, and maintain the essentials of daily life even as normal patterns of activity have been disrupted. We are fully engaged to protect the health and safety of our workforce and are donating funds and equipment to health care providers and first responders on the front lines of the pandemic response. In the communities where we operate, we are supporting relief efforts, donating Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and medical supplies, and offering teachers resources needed to conduct remote learning. Above all, we remain steadfast in our commitment to provide the energy that is necessary to move life forward. Enabling human progress takes human energy. And for 140 years, the people of Chevron have brought inspiration, creativity and ingenuity to developing solutions that help make our world better. This is both the legacy of our past and our promise for the future. We take our responsibility to society seriously and are committed to relentlessly imagining new ways of delivering the energy life depends on. Global demand for energy and stakeholder expectations for a lower-carbon future have never been higher. And Chevron’s sustainability commitment has never been stronger. This is evidenced by our support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and by the environment, social and governance (ESG) priorities that are integrated throughout our business. Three pillars underpin our approach to ESG: We protect the environment, empower people and get results the right way— The Chevron Way. In our 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report , we spotlight how our 
people, partnership and performance further humanity’s ability to thrive. Highlights include: The innovative and ongoing actions we are taking to advance environmental performance.  We are lowering carbon intensity 
and increasing the use of renewables in our operations while investing in breakthrough technologies. For example, we have reduced methane emissions from Chevron’s U.S. onshore produc­tion operations by 85 percent since 2013; invested $1 billion in carbon capture and storage projects in Australia and Canada; been cited by third parties as the leader in flare minimization in the Permian Basin; pledged $100 million to the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative Climate Investments fund; and committed $100 million to the Chevron Technology Ventures’ Future Energy Fund. 
Chairman’s letter continues on page 2 
chevron.com/sustainability 
1    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
Above:  Wirth met with Chevron employees enrolled in our new partnership with 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to enhance workforce capabilities in data analytics and other in-demand technical skills. 
Our investment in people.  Chevron employees are at the 
center of everything we do. We are committed to a diverse and inclusive work environment that empowers problem-solvers to tackle some of the world’s most complex challenges. We uphold universal human rights and partner with external stakeholders to make communities stronger. Over the last six years, Chevron has invested $137 billion in global goods and services and more than $1 billion in global social programs, including funding to improve access to health care, promote science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) training, empower women through education, and promote widespread economic growth and sustainable entrepreneurship. Getting results the right way. From our Board of Directors’ commitment to governance excellence to our enduring culture of operational excellence, Chevron delivers results the right and responsible way. We operate with the highest ethical standards and place the highest priority on the safety and health of our workforce and the protection of communities and the environment. Thanks to the past and present relationships Chevron has forged with partners—stakeholders and shareholders—we continue to enable human progress around the world. We could not be prouder of our workforce, and we embrace the opportunity to create a future of sustainable progress and prosperity. While there will be challenges, we know that the power of human energy will lead us to a brighter future. 
Michael K. Wirth Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer May 2020 
“Chevron has a uniquely 
supportive and 
flourishing culture thanks 
to our leaders’ work to 
integrate diversity in Kristan Crapps 
thought and background Employee Network 
Coordinator into our workforce.” 
chevron awards and recognition 
corporate responsibility 
• American Chamber of Commerce Thailand CSR
 Excellence Recognition Award 
• Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility 
5-star rating in Employment and Governance
 
• JUST Capital Top 100 U.S. Companies Supporting 
Healthy Communities and Families
 
• Verdantix International Environmental Health and 
Safety Innovation Award recipient, Oil & Gas
 
diversity and inclusion 
• 2019 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award of National Guard and Reserve employees, U.S. Department of Defense 
• American Indian Science and Engineering Society Top 50 STEM Workplaces for Native American Professionals 
• Asia Society, Best Asian Pacific American Employee
 Resource Groups
 
• Forbes America’s Best Employers for Women 
• Women in Engineering ProActive Network Industry 
Trailblazer Award
 
For a full list of awards, visit 
chevron.com/awardsandrecognition . 
chevron.com/sustainability 
2 chevron.com/sustainability
2  
 
  
  
-  
 
  
     
  
-  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 strategy and sustainability
 
at chevron, we work to deliver energy that improves lives 
while striving to meet social and environmental goals 
For more than 140 years, Chevron has strived to earn a distin­guished track record for operating with integrity and for holding ourselves accountable to the high expectations of our global stakeholders. We take this responsibility seriously and are proud of our role in delivering the affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy that is vital to human progress. We focus our sustainability efforts on addressing environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, including implementing strong environmental stewardship, putting people at the center of everything we do and achieving results the right way. These commitments reflect our culture of operational excellence, high ethical standards, strict capital discipline and transparent risk management. They also demonstrate our intent to lead responsibly in any environment. 
Bruce Niemeyer 
Vice President,
 
Strategy and Sustainability
 
“Throughout our history, social 
investment and sustainability have been 
part of the ethos of our company. 
The integration of our Strategy and Sustainability teams
 
is an intentional acknowledgment of our long held belief that
 
social investment, strategy and sustainability are united efforts.
 
This is important because the world’s future energy needs
 
require performance at the highest level in order to address
 
global challenges and meet evolving stakeholder expectations.”
 protecting the 
environment 
getting results 
the right way empowering 
people the 
human 
energy 
company 
Daniel Droog 
Vice President,
 
Energy Transition
 
“We embrace the future of 
energy: a lower carbon 
future that includes oil and 
gas, new forms of energy 
and new ways of delivering 
energy. Today, we are 
taking action by reducing 
carbon intensity, deploying 
renewables and investing 
in technology that lowers 
greenhouse gas emissions.” 
chevron.com/sustainability 
3 To reflect the importance our company places on sustainability, Chevron integrated the work of the Energy Transition and ESG Engagement & Sustainability teams into one corporate Strategy and Sustainability group. This development enables enterprisewide strategic alignment and more efficient decision­making, accel­erates the pace of our work, and better integrates our operations to deliver results in a sustainable manner. Our commitment to sustainability is also evident in the new name of the report, Chevron’s Corporate Sustainability Report .   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 in this report
 
protecting the 
environment empowering 
people getting results 
the right way progress and 
performance 
1 6 16 26 36 
a message from focusing on promoting focusing contributing 
our chairman environmental diversity and on governance to the SDGs 
and chief issues inclusion issues We work to advance the 
executive officer We protect the environment through innovative and We believe diverse thinking and an inclusive work We believe good governance helps us apply The Chevron UN’s Sustainable Development Goals as part of our commit­
3 responsible operations. environment encourage human ingenuity and Way in all that we do. ment to enable human progress around the world. 
strategy and sustainability 
At Chevron, we work to deliver energy that improves lives while striving to meet social and environmental goals. 9 
addressing climate change 
We are committed to addressing climate change by lowering carbon intensity cost efficiently, increasing renewables in support of our creative problem-solving. 
18 
creating prosperity 
We strive to empower people around the world to improve their lives, 31 
building an enduring culture of safety 
We strive to continuously improve our safety performance. 38 
performance data 
We demonstrate our commitment to transparency by reporting metrics and performance data annually. 
business and investing in breakthrough technologies. 
13 
stewarding responsible water management 
We conserve and protect water resources using a risk-based approach. achieve their aspirations and meet their full potential. 
22 
respecting human rights: a conversation 
We believe respecting human rights is central to who we are, what we do and how we work. 33 
advancing operational excellence together 
We continuously improve how we work to reduce health, safety and environmental risks. 46 
additional information 
chevron.com/sustainability 
4 visionchevron.com/sustainability
4 
  
 
 environment
 
protecting the 
environment
 
we work to deliver the energy 
the world needs while 
protecting the environment
 
6 9 13 
focusing on addressing stewarding 
environmental climate change responsible water 
issues management 
chevron.com/sustainability 
5  
  
 
 
 
   
     
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  focusing on
environmental issues 
learn more chevron.com/environment we protect the environment through 
innovative and responsible operations 
Michael McDonald 
Environmental
 
Team Lead
 
“Success in environmental 
stewardship comes 
down to increasing 
effectiveness by reducing 
complexity and adding 
capability to help Chevron 
achieve clean, safe 
and reliable operations.” 
We pursue innovations that improve our environmental performance across our operations. This commitment to sustainability is built into the way we manage our work. Our Operational Excellence Management System establishes standards and objectives that extend from the corporate level to local management, allowing our businesses to focus on the localized risks and potential environmental issues at specific operating locations. 
innovating to protect the environment in Australia 
In 2019, we began operating our carbon dioxide injection system at the Gorgon natural gas facility on Barrow Island off the northwest coast of Western Australia. While standard industry practice for natural gas is to vent the separated CO₂ to the atmosphere, the Gorgon Project injects the reservoir CO₂ into the Dupuy Formation beneath Barrow Island. An ongoing monitoring program, including observation wells and seismic surveys, assists in managing the performance of the injected reservoir. 
The project is one of the world’s largest integrated carbon capture and storage projects. Our plan is to inject up to 4 million tonnes of reservoir CO₂ each year, reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the Gorgon Project by approximately 40 percent. 
4MM tonnes
 
of reservoi r CO 2 planned for injection
 
at our Gorgon natural gas facility each year
 
Above:  Chevron technicians Ginny Ng (left) and Liam Fleay inspect equipment 
from the Gorgon Project used to inject and store CO₂ into the Dupuy Formation, a deep reservoir unit more than two kilometers under Barrow Island. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
6 chevron.com/sustainability
6  
 
   
 
 
  
 
Above:  The biodiversity plan for our Tengizchevroil joint venture includes debris 
removal in the Caspian Sea to protect endangered wildlife. This Caspian seal was entangled in an abandoned fishing net, rescued, provided care and released. 
protecting marine life in the caspian sea 
Ghost nets are lost, abandoned or discarded fishing nets that can be deadly to marine life. Our Tengizchevroil (TCO) joint venture identified removal of floating ghost net debris from the Caspian Sea as a key initiative in its biodiversity action plan. The 2017 debris removal pilot achieved impressive results, and due to its success, TCO collaborated with the government of Kazakhstan and two nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to expand the program. As a result of these partnerships, 2,856 kg in nets and 6,496 kg in debris were collected in less than three weeks in 2019. Debris identified as suitable was recycled by incorporating it into cement and asphalt mixtures for road and pavement repair. Debris not suitable for recycling was disposed of by a licensed third-party waste contractor. TCO will continue working to increase awareness of the harm that ghost nets can do and encourage operators in the Caspian Sea to develop their own programs to protect marine life. 
“I use technology 
to support Chevron’s 
operations at our 
wind farm and solar 
fields, deepening our
 Eddie Emmert understanding of solar Pipeline and Power solutions and reducing Operations Advisor 
daily employee risk.” partnering with renewable energy innovators in california 
Chevron continues its commitment to increasing renewables in support of its business. In 2019, Chevron advanced its renewable power strategy in solar at our Lost Hills oil field in Kern County, California, where partnership and innovation are helping Chevron develop more energy at a lower carbon intensity. Construction is underway on a project containing a 29-megawatt system of solar panels that will deliver low-carbon electricity to our Lost Hills operations. We agreed to purchase the solar energy from commercial solar provider SunPower under a power purchase agreement (PPA). SunPower built the project, which is scheduled for completion in 2020, on Chevron land. Over the PPA’s 20-year potential term, the project is expected to produce more than 1.4 billion kilowatt-hours of solar energy and provide 80 percent of the power needs of Lost Hills oil field. When fully operational, it will be the largest solar electric system in California’s Net Energy Metering program. 
80%
 
Upon completion, the solar project 
is expected to provide 80 percent of the 
power needs of the Lost Hills oil field.
 
Above:  A Chevron project team reviews an installation of a solar array that helps to 
power our Lost Hills oil field in Kern County, California. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
7   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
achieving operational goals while protecting the environment 
Approximately 30,000 turtle hatchlings emerge from their Thevenard Island (TVI) nests during Australia’s summer months, December through March, and traverse the beach to the ocean. The 2018 migration coincided with the TVI Onshore Plug and Abandonment Project, which involved decommissioning 15 onshore wells after the TVI oil fields and production facility reached the end of their economic life. Three species of sea turtle inhabit the waters surrounding TVI, and all of them are sensitive to light. Several Australasia business unit (ABU) teams working together identified that the 24-hour well decommissioning cycle could pose a risk to the turtle behavior, as the lights associated with the rig could distract hatchlings from their seaward journey. The project was at risk for significant delay if the hatchlings could not be protected. To protect the turtles while adhering to the administrative schedule, the ABU partnered with regulators and fauna handlers to implement risk mitigation strategies. Turtle fences were installed around well pads, regular lighting assessments to assess the efficacy of lighting controls were conducted, hatchling movements were monitored and temporary rig shutdowns occurred during high-risk periods to protect the turtles. This quick response to the needs of the environment reduced risks to both the project and the turtles. 
Above:  Chevron monitors green turtle hatchlings on Thevenard Island, Australia, 
as they journey from nest to ocean. We have measures in place to prevent the turtles from being disoriented by lights from onshore oil wells being decommissioned. 
“The ‘one team’ effort 
protected the hatchlings 
during their journey, with 
more than 470 at-risk 
 ˜30,000 
hatchlings relocated to safer turtle hatchlings protected on their 
beaches away from well beach-to-ocean journey on Thevenard Island 
decommissioning activities.” 
— Blair Hardman 
ABU Lead Environmental Specialist 
additional resources 
chevron.com/biodiversity 
chevron.com/sustainability 
8 chevron.com/sustainability
8 
   
  
  
     
  
  
  
 
-
   
  
 addressing climate change
 
we are committed to addressing climate change 
by lowering carbon intensity cost efficiently, 
increasing renewables in support of our business 
and investing in breakthrough technologies 
learn more chevron.com/climatechange 
Daniel Droog 
Vice President,
 
Energy Transition
 
“We are seeking to change 
the energy equation while 
delivering affordable, 
reliable and ever cleaner 
energy. We will achieve 
this responsibly by 
managing costs, improving 
our operations and 
investing in breakthrough 
technologies.” 
addressing climate change by the numbers 
Above:  Chevron’s  CO 2 Injection Project at Gorgon, one of the world’s largest integrated carbon capture and storage 
projects, will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 40 percent. 
$100MM
 
pledged to the Oil and 
Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI)
 
Climate Investments fund 
$1B
 
in carbon capture and 
storage project investments 
in Australia and Canada $100MM
 
committed to Chevron 
Technology Ventures to 
set up the Future Energy 
Fund launched in 2018 85%
 
reduction of methane 
emissions from Chevron’s 
U.S. onshore production 
operations since 2013 
chevron.com/sustainability 
9      
  
   
  
 
  
 chevron’s energy transition focus areas are:
 
1
 
lower carbon intensity 
cost efficiently 2
 
increase renewables 
in support of our business 3
 
invest in the future 
targeting breakthrough technologies 
Performance tied to Recently completed agreements Created Future Energy Fund and 
employee compensation and new partnerships developed carbon capture and 
sequestration technologies in Australia 
Our priority of protecting the environment is 
not new to Chevron. It is deeply rooted in who we 
are and what we value: The Chevron Way.
 
leading in the future of energy 
Chevron shares society’s concerns about climate change and is developing scalable solutions to address this global challenge. As a leader in the evolving future of energy, Chevron is committed to improving efficiency, driving collaboration and leveraging our generations of problem-solvers to manage climate risks. We support the Paris Agreement as a step forward and encourage practical actions that deliver tangible results in answering the world’s demands, including more energy and a cleaner environment. Chevron focuses on the following areas to address the energy transition and climate change: lowering our carbon intensity cost efficiently, increasing use of renewables in support of our business and investing in the future by targeting breakthrough technologies. enhancing transparency with investors and stakeholders 
Our strong governance practices provide a framework for enhancing transparency related to climate change. For example, in response to growing interest from our investors and stakeholders, Chevron voluntarily published three dedicated climate reports over the last three years, largely using the recommendations of the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). These reports explain our strategic decision-making approach as it relates to climate change-related risks and opportunities, including our ongoing evaluations of our portfolio and future investments. As we’ve shared in our reports, these evaluations confirm that our mature and diverse portfolio is resilient in many scenarios and our asset mix enables us to be flexible in response to potential changes. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
10 chevron.com/sustainability
10  
 
 
    
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
“We design, construct 
and operate our 
facilities with the goal 
of reducing emissions 
and flaring.” 
Don Puckett 
General Manager,
 
Operations
 
intensity reduction 
metrics for upstream * 
(2016–2023) 
20–25% 
net reduction in methane 
emissions intensity 2–5% 
net reduction in GHG 
intensity for gas production 
25–30% 
net reduction 
in flaring intensity 5–10% 
net reduction in GHG 
intensity for oil production Above:  In 2019, Chevron had one of the lowest venting and flaring rates of any 
company in the Permian Basin, located in Texas and New Mexico. 
lower carbon intensity cost efficiently 
We take active steps to reduce our carbon footprint. Chevron has established goals to reduce equity net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity from Upstream oil and natural gas. These reduction goals build on other actions Chevron is taking to address climate change by lowering our carbon intensity cost efficiently, increasing use of renewables in support of our business and investing in the future by targeting breakthrough technologies. We intend to lower Upstream oil net GHG emissions intensity by 5–10 percent and Upstream natural gas net GHG emissions intensity by 2–5 percent from 2016 to 2023. In addition, we tie GHG reduction metrics to compensation for executives and nearly all Chevron employees. 
Mark Trupp 
Subsurface Team
 
Lead, Gorgon
 
CO₂ Disposal
 “The Gorgon CO₂ 
injection system has 
set a precedent for 
other plants of its kind, 
reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions on 
an industrial scale.” 
* Based on 2016 emissions levels 
chevron.com/sustainability 
11  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
      
       
 
     
 
  
    
   
  “We proactively consider climate change risks 
and opportunities in our business decisions. We have the 
experience, processes and governance in place to manage 
these climate risks and opportunities, and we are 
equipped to deliver industry-leading results and superior 
stockholder value in any business environment.”
 
— Mike Wirth 
Chairman of the Board and CEO 
explore more
 
on our ongoing
 
efforts to address 
climate change
 mana ging climate 
change risks 
a perspective for investors 
increase renewables in support of our business 
We are increasing our use of renewables to power our operations. Efforts include renewable power purchase agreements for 65 megawatts of wind power in West Texas and 29 megawatts of solar power in Southern California. We work with partners like Novvi and San Francisco International Airport to deploy renewables to blend with our fuels and to develop renewable base oils for lubricants to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We also collaborate with Pacific Ethanol, Waste Management and CalBio to provide renewable transport fuels. In addition, we evaluate potential feedstocks such as algae, woods, grasses and trees that can be used as cleaner sources of fuel in the future. 
invest in the future by targeting breakthrough technologies 
We invest in breakthrough technologies that can deliver ever-cleaner energy on a global scale. Since its inception in 2018, Chevron Technology Ventures’ $100 million Future Energy Fund climate change 
resilience 
a framework for decision making 
has pursued innovative technologies that could be a part of the future energy mix. Recent investments support technology development in the areas of energy efficiency, battery storage and management, autonomous vehicles and carbon capture. We committed $100 million to the over $1 billion Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) Climate Investments fund to lower the carbon footprint of the energy and industrial sectors. We have also invested over $1 billion in carbon capture, utilization and storage projects in Canada and Australia, which includes the Gorgon Carbon Dioxide Injection Project—one of the world’s largest integrated carbon capture and storage projects in operation. 
additional resources 
chevron.com/technologyventures 
chevron.com/sustainability 
12 
update to  
climate change 
resilience
a framework for decision making
February 2019chevron.com/sustainability
12  
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
-
 
 
 stewarding responsible 
water management 
learn more chevron.com/water we conserve and protect water 
resources using a risk based approach 
“Turning what was 
before wastewater into 
a reusable resource is 
good water management, 
is good for the Permian 
and is good for our 
business. It’s an exciting 
leap forward.” 
Abdul Sule 
Water Operations 
Supervisor
 
protecting natural resources 
Clean water is a fundamental societal, environmental and economic resource. It is essential for the communities where we operate and our business. We protect this critical natural resource through our risk-based water management systems, processes and standards. Using water responsibly is an important part of being a good partner in the communities where we work. 
99%+
 To use water responsibly, we: • Consider water conservation and efficiency in key decisions. 
• Strive to conserve, reuse and recycle. 
• Use appropriate metrics to report on water use. 
• Engage with governments, partners, local communities and other stakeholders on significant water resource issues in areas where we operate. 
• Build partnerships and contribute to industry initiatives to promote best practices, develop industry standards and shape policy for water resources. 
Above:  Chevron personnel in the Mid-Continent business unit in Texas use our 
Water Operations Management Tool to enter water composition and volume levels, which captures when sufficient recycled water is ready for reuse in oil operations. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
13 Today, in the Permian, Chevron uses  
which now includes recycled water.99 percent nonfresh water for completions,  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
Norm James 
Water 
and Regulatory 
Specialist
 “At one operating site 
in the Kaybob Duvernay, 
we were able to use 
nearly 100 percent of 
the water produced that 
would have otherwise been 
disposed of as waste.” 
sharing expertise to use water responsibly 
In 2019, Chevron led multiple efforts to develop and share best practices in responsible water management both across our company and within the industry. Engineers and Health, Environment, and Safety specialists from our U.S. refineries joined with water specialists from Chevron Energy Technology Company to form a new network focused on sharing best practices to improve effluent treatment operations. For example: • Employees from our Latin American Unit in Argentina visited our Mid-Continent business unit (MCBU) in the United States to learn about water transfer methods, including best practices for transferring brackish water, water produced during oil and gas extraction, and recycled water from containment structures. 
• At the 2019 Society of Petroleum Engineers Symposium in Kazakhstan, Tengizchevroil shared freshwater management strategies with the industry to advance sustainable water practices in the region. 
managing water use responsibly 
Chevron strives to responsibly manage our water usage. For example, in the Permian Basin we have increased the reuse of water produced during oil operations. Chevron has implemented innovative produced water recycle strategies for drilling and completions that decrease reliance on other water sources. Research shows this reuse of produced water is not detrimental to well longevity because the chemistry of the underground formation undergoes fewer changes. Reuse of produced water for these operations is sensible and fit for purpose. Likewise, our Canada business unit invested in freshwater storage and pipeline infrastructure in Kaybob Duvernay, Alberta, to reduce our operational footprint and reliance on river water during low-flow periods in summer and winter. 
Above:  Chevron is operating in the Duvernay shale formation near Fox Creek, 
Alberta, approximately 260 kilometers northwest of Edmonton, Alberta, applying best practices to reduce our operational footprint. 
“The future challenge 
is to identify 
reliable sources of 
water through an 
approach that includes 
water reuse and 
management strategies.” 
additional resources 
chevron.com/waterpositionstatement 
Carlos Algarra 
Chevron Argentina
 
Facilities Engineering
 
Manager
 
chevron.com/sustainability 
14 chevron.com/sustainability
14   
   social
 
empowering
people
 
we put people at the center 
of everything we do
 
16 18 22 
promoting creating respecting 
diversity and prosperity human rights: 
inclusion a conversation 
chevron.com/sustainability 
15   
  
  
 
 
  
  
-
 promoting diversity
and inclusion
 
we believe diverse thinking and an inclusive 
work environment encourage human 
ingenuity and creative problem solving 
learn more chevron.com/diversity 
environment where diverse voices are heard, ideas are considered, 
 100%
 Erin McGregor 
Human Resources, 
Transformation Office
 
“I don’t consider 
Chevron’s employee 
networks as just another 
aspect of diversity and 
inclusion; I see them as an 
integral part of a culture 
that allows employees
 
to bring their authentic 
selves to work every day.”
 
people are our most important resource 
At Chevron, we believe the most creative solutions emerge in an bold thinking is valued and people can grow into their fullest potential. This approach is a facet of The Chevron Way that reflects our commitment to engage our people in ways that help them thrive and innovate. Our commitment to active inclusivity is evident in our operations around the world. For example, a new employee network in Kazakhstan builds camaraderie between nationals and the expatriate community. An employee network in Australia promotes understanding and respect between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal cultures. In Nigeria, we strive to build teams with workers from different tribal affiliations. 
Chevron received the top score of 100%, 
making it one of the Best Places to 
Work for People with Disabilities in 2019 
by the Disability Equality Index. 
Above:  Lead Construction Engineer Laura Kezar, Chief Diversity Officer Lee Jourdan, 
Product Supply and Operations Trading Manager Shari Ruelas and Earth Scientist
 Kat Hoffman demonstrate the “Balance for Better” pose at the 2019 International
 Women’s Day celebration in Houston.
 
chevron.com/sustainability 
16 chevron.com/sustainability
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 engaging employees to improve performance 
The work environment at Chevron continually evolves to maximize the employee experience and drive high performance. Our culture of well-being motivates employees to work safely and productively. Chevron has several methods to engage employees, collect input and improve our performance. For more than 30 years, we have conducted an annual companywide employee survey to measure and improve our culture and business results. In 2019, our internal scores were among the best in the industry, and this year, the survey had the highest response rate in recent history. In addition, our Human Resource Committee reviews workforce demographics to monitor diversity progress. We also obtain employee feedback through our Ombuds program, which provides a safe, confidential and neutral place to express concerns and develop solutions, including issues related to employee engagement and The Chevron Way values and culture. 
“Attracting and developing 
individuals with different 
talents, ideas and experiences 
is needed to solve the world’s 
most complex challenges. 
Our greatest resource is the 
inspiration, creativity 
and ingenuity of our people.”
 
— Lee Jourdan 
Chief Diversity Officer 
Above:  Members of our XYZ Employee Network gather in Chevron’s Midland 
office. The XYZ Employee Network is one of the 12 employee networks at Chevron, with more than 20,000 members, that promote Chevron’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. partnering with MIT to enhance our workforce 
To win in any environment, we need to prepare our leaders for a future that will rely heavily on digital tools and concepts. In 2019, we launched a partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to sponsor employees interested in pursuing a Master of Science degree focused on digital technology, management and data analytics. Sixteen Chevron employees from Kazakhstan, Nigeria and the United States enrolled in fall 2019. MIT faculty works with these employees and Chevron leadership to identify ways that digital technology can help solve challenges facing the energy industry. 
creating a pathway to return to Chevron 
In 2019, Chevron launched Welcome Back, a return-to-work program to attract talented professionals who want to reenter the workforce. Participants have strong leadership and planning skills but have taken a career pause of two or more years to raise a family, continue their education, volunteer in their communities or meet other responsibilities. The program provides participants with a pathway to reenter the workforce by strengthening their technical expertise. Participants spend 10 to 12 weeks training with supervisors and mentors, with the goal of filling full-time positions at the end of the program. Nine women of diverse backgrounds participated in the inaugural group in 2019. 
“I was nervous after 
taking a break in my 
career, but the Welcome 
Back program helped 
me comfortably return 
to the petroleum 
industry with ease.” 
Ruth Fernandez 
Welcome Back 
Program Participant
 
additional resources 
chevron.com/culture 
chevron.com/sustainability 
17  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
—  
—   creating prosperity
 
we strive to empower people around 
the world to improve their lives, achieve their 
aspirations and meet their full potential
 
learn more chevron.com/creatingprosperity 
Flor Sandrea 
Payroll Coordinator 
“By participating and 
volunteering with social 
projects inside and 
outside of the company, 
everyone wins the 
employees, community 
and Chevron fostering 
a sense of belonging.” 
We work to make the world a better place. Our partnerships and investments in health, education and economic development advance progress and strengthen communities. 
the path ahead 
The countries and territories in which we operate present widely varying challenges and opportunities in meeting our goal: to make human progress a reality for those without access to reliable, affordable and ever-cleaner energy everywhere we work. Partnerships are core to our business and enable us to achieve more together, which is why we work with local stakeholders, governments and NGOs who can bring their expertise to our projects, augment our reach and improve our results. Our commitments to help reduce poverty, drive economic and social opportunity, and prepare the workforce of the future drive us to continually improve. our approach 
At Chevron, we define the energy challenge in human terms. Life depends on reliable, affordable and ever-cleaner energy, and we are doing our part to provide access to people without it today. We work together with governments, communities and business leaders to help the communities we operate in prosper. We are proud of the gains we have made in promoting health, economic development and education around the world. 
Above:  The SHIKHON Project in Bangladesh, a collaboration between Chevron 
and Save the Children, provided more than 1,800 children in 46 villages with early education opportunities near our areas of operation in 2019. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
18 chevron.com/sustainability
18 
 
 
  
     
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
 “As one of the Peer 
Health Educator 
program coordinators 
I’m committed to role 
modeling healthy 
behaviors to promote 
whole person hea th.”  
health 
Building a better world requires promoting the well-being of its people and enhancing their ability to lead meaningful lives. We participate in several programs that improve the health of the communities where we operate. 
Leslie Emma 
Health Advisor 
delivering results in health 
employee and community wellness 
enabling road safety Peer Health Education (PHE) supports Chevron’s health and wellness initiatives by empowering employee volunteers to influence and role-model among their peers. Through the program, more than 440 peer educators have been trained as workforce and community health champions around the world. These employees deliver health support and referrals to their peers through education, programming and activities designed to build capacity and positive behavior change. They also increase health awareness in their communities through planned engagements and event participation. 
Chevron’s commitment to partnership and safety in China is visible in Chuandongbei, where we have a 49 percent nonoperating interest in the project. Road safety is a critical issue for local children, and together with the AIP Foundation, Chevron created the Walk Wise road safety program 
to address the hazards of unsafe driving and poorly maintained roads. Since the initial program sponsorship in 2012, the program has benefited 156,000 students and 300,000 parents, who demonstrated improved knowledge, attitudes and behaviors toward road safety. 
mental and emotional health 
The Chevron Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and WorkLife Services is a free, confidential consulting service for employees, their family members and retirees worldwide. The EAP team connects beneficiaries to advisors who assist in the resolution of personal and work-related concerns. In 2019, the team launched Let’s Talk, a three-year enterprisewide mental health initiative designed to increase awareness of available services and reduce associated stigmas. Let’s Talk emphasizes the importance of establishing a strong and sustained community of support for employees, encouraging managers to share personal stories with their teams and to promote utilization of well-being tools and participating in mental health events and programming. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
19 -
l 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  “Because Chevron 
believed and invested 
in me I now have the 
resources to promote 
STEM and coding 
to the next generation 
in Kazakhstan.” 
Dana Yerlanova 
MakerSpace
 
Ambassador
 education 
Our investments in education are long-term and far-reaching, and our support for science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education helps communities prosper and gives everyone partnership in the process. We work to create innovative education programs that position the next generation of problem-solvers to tackle the most complex challenges of the future. 
investing in education 
education and innovation 
empowering women through STEM The Chevron Enjoy Science Project is a multiyear, $30 million public-private partnership in Thailand. The project promotes and improves STEM education and vocational training. Schools involved in the program are making marked progress in improving the quality of teaching and learning. The program has far exceeded its original target of 500,000 beneficiaries, with a reach of nearly 3 million students, teachers, technical workers and community members. Enjoy Science also delivered the first-of-its-kind public-private partnership within the STEM and vocational education sectors in Thailand. The findings may help to guide the work and decisions of policymakers and educators in Thailand as they seek to establish more effective instructional interventions to ensure equitable access to quality education. 
In 2019, Chevron partnered with the Asian University for Women (AUW) during the Math and Science Summer School in Bangladesh, which helps aspiring female scientists and mathematicians enter top universities and start or consider STEM careers. An impressive 88 percent of students reported that the program helped prepare them for university, and 78 percent said they were more informed about opportunities in the STEM field and careers. 
promoting global literacy 
The Chevron Readers’ Cup is a scholastic reading competition, held annually at the Emirates Airline Festival of Literature in the United Arab Emirates. In 2019, the competition included over 2,000 student participants from 700 schools. Chevron provides books, supplies, prizes and staffing for the event. The festival is the world’s largest celebration of the written and spoken word in the region. Chevron also sponsors the Dubai Cares Walk for Education, an event to help provide quality education to children in developing countries. In 2019, more than 15,000 participants representing more than 200 nationalities walked alongside millions of children from developing countries who must walk long distances daily to attend school. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
20 chevron.com/sustainability
20 
 
  
    
   
         
 
 
   
 “The challenges are real 
and the opportunities 
endless. What better 
work is there than helping 
build a better future 
for my community?” 
Kayleigh Dunn 
Community 
Relations Advisor
 economic growth 
Our global social impact initiatives aim to ignite and inspire new possibilities for women, families and communities. By investing in programs that provide support for small businesses and entrepreneurs with financial health training and soft skills training, we are supporting the current and future health and prosperity of the communities where we operate. 
building local capacity 
investing in the future 
promoting growth The Permian Strategic Partnership (PSP), which comprises 20 leading Permian Basin energy companies including Chevron, aims to improve the quality of life for Permian Basin families. By partnering with local leaders, PSP is making roads safer, improving schools, upgrading health care, increasing affordable housing and training the next generation of workers. In July 2019, PSP announced its first initiative, a $16.5 million donation to support the opening of 14 new IDEA Public Schools in Midland and Odessa, Texas. PSP also committed $500,000 in funding to help Lea and Eddy counties in New Mexico compete for state, federal and foundation grants in education, health care and workforce development. Chevron is a proud member of both of these initiatives. 
In Kazakhstan, Chevron has a history of successful partnership that spans almost 30 years. Chevron remains one of the largest international investors in the country and has helped catalyze economic growth and social prog­ress. Since 1993, we have invested over $1.9 billion in Kazakh employee and social programs, including $300 million in social infrastructure. During this same time period, Chevron has spent $32.9 billion on local goods and services. We also provide support to help Kazakhstani companies develop sustainable business models. In addition, Chevron supports Zharkyra, a Eurasia Foundation of Central Asia (EFCA) social entrepreneurship develop­ment program. In 2019, local entrepreneurs submitted 25 project ideas to EFCA, and 10 were selected for financial assistance. The focus of eight of the projects is education, child development and health improvement. 
generating opportunity 
In Argentina, Chevron partners with the Other Voices Foundation to support Entrepreneurs in Action, an initiative we have been promoting since 2013. Through training and workshops, this program aims to support women entrepreneurs in Neuquén in the development and management of their cooking, sewing, reflexology, hairdressing and dry construction businesses. In addition to gaining technical knowledge, participants receive training on entrepreneurial analysis, costs, marketing, logo and brand design, and personal development. In 2019, more than 160 women benefited from this initiative. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
21  
    
   
 
 
   
  respecting human rights: 
a conversation 
learn more chevron.com/humanrights we believe respecting human rights is central to 
who we are, what we do and how we work 
question
and 
answer 
with dale walsh 
and jyotsna mahendra 
Right:  Dale Walsh, Vice President of Corporate 
Affairs, and Jyotsna Mahendra, Senior Advisor of ESG and Sustainability, discuss key human rights issues impacting our business. 
Walsh: Our success is driven by our people 
and their commitment to get results the right way. Chevron’s Human Rights Policy details the expectations we have of our employees, suppliers and business partners to deliver on this commitment. This means conducting our business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner and respecting the law and universal human rights to benefit the communities where we work. Mahendra: Why does Chevron have a human rights policy? Mahendra: Chevron recently updated our Human Rights Policy. Why? 
Walsh: Chevron first implemented our Human 
Rights Policy in 2009, with only minor updates in the years since. However, in 2019 we undertook a complete review of the policy and associated guidelines, processes and procedures to ensure that they reflect more clearly the company’s commitment to respecting human rights. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
22 chevron.com/sustainability
22 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Mahendra: Can you describe the changes that were made? 
Walsh: 
There were three main changes. 
First, we clearly state our continuing commit­ment to international human rights norms: 
“We commit to respect human rights as set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work as well as adhere to the principles set out in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights , the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights , and the International Finance 
Corporation’s Performance Standards .” 
Second, we clarified that we expect  our 
suppliers and contractors to respect human rights and adhere to applicable international principles. We also encourage our business partners—those businesses with which Chevron is associated in a joint venture, partnership or other form of business collaboration—to do the same. This means going beyond Chevron’s direct operational control, seeking to use our influence to promote respect for human rights by our suppliers and contractors. Third, Chevron has developed a Human Rights Defenders Statement that explicitly states that we will not tolerate physical threats, intimidation or violence against human rights defenders who are lawfully exercising legitimate rights. We also expect and encourage our suppliers, contractors and business partners to comply with this statement. 
“Our success is driven by 
our people and their 
commitment to get results 
the right way. ” 
— Dale Walsh 
Vice President, Corporate Affairs 
Walsh: Can you speak about the integration of human rights across our work at Chevron? 
Mahendra: 
Respect for human rights is 
embedded in Chevron’s existing processes, most notably the Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). Both the stakeholders and security focus areas within OEMS are key to how we integrate human rights into our work. 
For example, Chevron has a Security Risk Assessment Program (SRAP) through which security risks are identified and assessed, from corporate level down to individual facilities and from conceptual projects to mature operations. One of the focus areas involves identifying human rights concerns. The process is designed to help ensure any safeguards put into place adhere to the main international framework on security and human rights, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. This is one of the many ways we systematically identify relevant human rights-related risks in various parts of our operations and establish safeguards that help us comply with our Human Rights Policy. 
What are some other examples of how Chevron works to protect human rights? 
Walsh: 
One example is how a group of 
employees in Houston took action to fight human trafficking. Working with our ESG and Sustainability team, the employees were able to connect their local volunteering with broader corporate efforts on modern slavery and human trafficking, a key issue in the business and human rights space. Chevron is now collaborating with peers in the oil and gas industry to raise awareness of human trafficking. We’re also sponsoring Truckers Against Trafficking, a nonprofit organization dedicated to fighting modern slavery by working with transport and logistics providers. 
Additionally, there are initiatives across the enterprise that help create a safe and equal environment free of discrimination for employees. This promotes the realization of human rights every day. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
23   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
          
  
             
            
  
  
 
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 chevron human rights policy 520 
employees 
We treat all 
employees with 
respect and dignity, 
and promote diversity 
in the workplace. security 
We protect 
personnel and assets 
and provide a secure 
environment for 
business operations. communities 
We commit to 
regularly engage 
communities near 
our operational 
and project areas 
in meaningful 
conversations. suppliers 
We expect our 
suppliers and 
contractors to respect 
human rights and 
adhere to applicable 
international 
principles. other 
business 
partners 
We encourage 
our customers and 
business partners 
to respect human 
rights and adhere to 
applicable international
 
principles.
 
focus areas 
We engage stakeholders on key human rights issues in our operating areas, including: • Indigenous peoples 
• Resettlement 
• Grievances 
• Livelihoods 
• Environmental matters 
• Human rights defenders 
chevron australia’s reconciliation action plan 
Chevron values ongoing consultation with communities and rights holders. In Australia, we launched our inaugural Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) to drive our contribution to reconciliation, both within the organization and the community. It lays out our vision, aspirations and hopes for our relationships with Aboriginal people based on a culture of diversity, inclusion, trust and respect. Our RAP sets the tone for the engagements and relationships we want to have with Aboriginal people. Most importantly, our RAP was developed together with Aboriginal people from across our business and communities where we operate. Our vision for reconciliation is a nation where Aboriginal people fully participate and benefit from the social and economic opportunities available in Australia. Chevron is honored to contribute to Australia’s journey of reconciliation. Learn more about Chevron Australia’s RAP at australia.chevron.com/ community/reconciliation-action-plan. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
24 focus areas 
We engage with key suppliers to reinforce awareness of our policies and potential human rights issues such as: • Working and living conditions 
• Forced labor 
• Child labor 
• Human trafficking 
• Conflict minerals sourcing 
• Protecting human rights defenders focus areas 
We encourage all business partners to respect the spirit and intent of the following Chevron policies and statements: • Human Rights Policy 
• Indigenous Peoples Guidance 
• Statement on Human Rights Defenders 
• Guidance related to land tenure and water rights focus areas 
Our company policies and procedures adhere to all applicable domestic laws, and we commit to core international labor principles, including: • Freedom of association and collective bargaining 
• Elimination of forced or compulsory labor 
• Nondiscrimination in the workplace focus areas 
We conduct our operations and execute projects in accordance with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights , which guide 
engagement with security providers to ensure human rights are respected in the protection of company facilities and premises. 
Above:  Aboriginal stakeholders performed a traditional welcoming ceremony to recog­
nize construction commencement at Chevron’s new office facility in Perth, Australia. 
additional resources 
chevron.com/aboutourhumanrightspolicy chevron.com/sustainability
24 
   
   governance
 
getting results
the right way
 
we cultivate a culture of integrity 
and commit ourselves to do 
things the right and responsible way
 
26 31 33 
focusing on building an advancing 
governance issues enduring operational 
culture of safety excellence together 
chevron.com/sustainability 
25   
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
   focusing on
governance issues 
learn more chevron.com/corporategovernance we believe good governance helps 
us apply the chevron way in all that we do 
boardroom 
insight 
Q&A with wanda austin 
and mary francis 
Right:  Independent Director Dr. Wanda Austin (right) 
discusses a range of topics including environmental, social and governance (ESG) trends, board oversight and energy transition. She is interviewed here by Corporate Secretary and Chief Governance Officer Mary Francis. For Wanda’s biography, please visit chevron.com/about/leadership/wanda-austin . 
Francis: What is the role of the Public Policy Committee (PPC) that you chair? 
Austin: I have been PPC Chair since May 2018. 
The role of the PPC is to provide oversight in the areas of environmental, social, human rights, political and public policy matters as they affect Chevron’s business and the company’s ability to deliver on its purpose. We engage the management team in detailed discussions and reviews on subjects such as proxy proposals, corporate policies, lobbying, community engagement and showing up as the responsible corporate citizen that we are. Austin: One of the many reasons it’s exciting 
to serve on the Chevron Board is that, much like the aerospace industry, the energy sector is a demanding and high-consequence business. Chevron has a very clear focus on the mission and everyone on the team understands the importance of what they are doing. It improves the quality of life for everybody when we, the Chevron “we,” do a good job. So my experience in aerospace, my experience advising the President of the United States in science and technology and my experience on other boards all comes together at Chevron. Francis: How has your prior experience leading The Aerospace Corporation informed your perspective as a Director 
on the Chevron Board? 
chevron.com/sustainability 
26 chevron.com/sustainability
26   
    
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   Francis: How does the Board oversee ESG issues at Chevron? 
Austin: 
As a board, we assess management’s 
policies, practices and performance. We rigorously review plans and proposals for the metrics set to measure ESG progress. We want Chevron to clearly outline its position on policy matters with external stakeholders so they understand those positions. We also engage with shareholders and stakeholders to better understand and respond to their interests. 
Francis: What does good governance of ESG issues look like? 
Austin: 
Good governance is not just a label 
that we apply because it is currently a topical issue. Good governance is a rigorous, structured and consistent approach to strategically look at issues for the long term. This is how we do business every day. We continually focus on making sure we understand ESG impacts and how to continue to deliver our products in a manner consistent with transparent, sustainable and responsible performance. 
Francis: Have you experienced Chevron’s values when on the ground with employees? 
Austin: 
Wherever I go in the world—and I’ve 
visited locations including Gorgon, El Segundo, the Permian and many others—there is a consistent focus on mission and a clear priority on safety and environmental protection among employees. This speaks to the culture. Everyone understands what they do is difficult, and they live Chevron’s core value to protect people and the environment. 
“We must be bold. We must 
be unsatisfied with the status quo. 
We must continually search for 
‘what’s next,’ ‘what else’ and ‘what if.’”
 
— Dr. Wanda M. Austin 
Public Policy Committee Chair 
Francis: How is Chevron reporting on climate change risks and opportunities? 
Austin: The company was one of the first to 
publish a TCFD-aligned report addressing governance, risk management, strategy and metrics. We communicate internally and externally about specific actions we are taking to reduce methane emissions, flaring and carbon intensity and achieve carbon sequestration. We set challenging targets and goals, measure our progress against them and incorporate those metrics into our compensation plan for employees so that they understand we need their innovation. 
Francis: Chevron has issued three climate reports in the last three years. What involve­ment does the Board and the PPC have in issuing those voluntary publications? 
Austin: Our involvement begins before the 
reports are produced. We discuss the need for transparency and responsiveness. The manage­ment team knows we are supportive of its proactive approach and is aware that we are going to challenge them to think “what’s next” in their communications. The PPC reviews the reports and provides appropriate suggestions. These publications are critical tools that spark dialogue, help educate our key audiences, and explain the role companies play in address­ing the dual challenge of enabling economic development and addressing climate resiliency. 
Francis: How is Chevron preparing for the energy transition? 
Austin: Chevron has always been in the 
energy transition business. Going forward, the opportunity is for us to improve our business as we know and understand it today but also to envision what it could be in the future through new technology and new tools. We must lead. We know our business inside out. If there is an opportunity to do something good for the future of the planet, I believe Chevron will figure out what that is. We must be bold. We must be unsatisfied with the status quo. We must continually search for “what’s next,” “what else” and “what if.” 
chevron.com/sustainability 
27  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
the
 
chevron
 
way
 
governance structures 
Chevron believes strong governance is the foundation for delivering strong shareholder value. Our governance structures reflect our commitment to fostering long-term relationships, trust and goodwill with our shareholders, ensuring that our decisions and actions advance and respond to shareholders’ interests and supporting full transparency. Our Investor Relations and Corporate Governance teams focus on engaging with shareholders and investors on a range of key issues, including operations, finance, governance, executive compensation, environmental topics, safety and policy. 
board of directors 
Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business. As part of its responsibility, the Board approves appropriate risk management policies, practices and systems throughout the company and regularly considers critical risk topics in its deliberative decision-making process. Through Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, the Board annually reviews financial, operational, market, political and other risks 
inherent to our business. 
Left:  The Chevron Way 
explains who we are, what we believe, how we achieve and where we aspire to go. For more information, visit chevron.com/ 
thechevronway . 
The Board has four standing committees: Audit, Board Nominating and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public Policy. Each committee helps Chevron manage risks across the company and compete more effectively to build long-term shareholder value. For example, the Public Policy Committee (PPC) helps the Board manage risks related to the social, political, environmental, human rights and public policy aspects of Chevron’s business. The PPC reports its discussions to the full Board for consideration and action when appropriate. All committees include only independent Directors. Each committee is chaired by an independent Director who determines the frequency, length and agenda of the committee meetings and who has access to management, information and independent advisors as needed. Members of our Board of Directors possess relevant skills and qualifications, including leadership, operations, environmental, policy, regulatory and finance expertise. Their experience comes from the academic, business and technology sectors. This diverse set of perspectives helps ensure that the Board challenges itself and management on the variety of risks and opportunities Chevron faces and continues to hold itself to high standards. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
28 chevron.com/sustainability
28 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
“Chevron’s Global Office 
of Ombuds underlines 
our commitment to 
operating ethically and 
Sana Manjeshwar responsibly, which are 
Global Principal core to The Chevron Way.” 
Ombuds Manager 
executive-level committees 
Under the oversight of the Board, Chevron’s Executive Committee is composed of the executive officers of Chevron and carries out Board policy in managing the business affairs of the company. The Enterprise Leadership Team (ELT) and Global Issues Committee (GIC) are subcommittees of the Executive Committee. The ELT is responsible for managing the composition, resource allocation and strategic direction of Chevron’s portfolio to achieve our objectives. In addition, the ELT oversees our ERM process. The GIC consists of members of the ELT, oversees Chevron’s policies and positions on issues of global significance, including climate change, and recommends appropriate responses. The GIC receives updates from internal and external subject matter experts to understand political and policy developments around the world, technological opportunities, and shareholder and stakeholder interests and concerns. The PPC is briefed on the work of the GIC by the Chair of the GIC, who also serves as the PPC secretary. This valuable link between the GIC and the PPC further enhances Board oversight. 
the environmental, social and governance team 
In 2018, Chevron created a dedicated team to engage on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues with investors, other stakeholders, framework developers—such as the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)—the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and ESG rating agencies. The ESG team and, when appropriate, senior executives, subject matter experts and our Lead Director regularly conduct in-depth discussions with investors and stakeholders. We aim to engage annually with our top 50 investors and other key stakeholders. Chevron gains valuable feedback during these engagements, and this feedback is shared with the Board and relevant Board committees. The ESG team regularly briefs the GIC on its efforts and supports the briefing of the PPC. business ethics 
Chevron’s reputation is built on the principles of responsibility, trust and integrity. Our values, which are reflected in The Chevron Way, include diversity and inclusion, high performance, integrity and trust, partnership, and protecting people and the environment. These values define our culture and underpin our business conduct. When we apply our ethical principles to our business decisions, the company is positioned for success. Every Chevron employee has a duty to uphold the company’s standing among the millions of people in the communities we touch. Our Business Conduct and Ethics Code is designed to help us fulfill this obligation. In addition, we expect our suppliers and contractors to conduct their businesses in a manner that protects people and the environment and complies with all applicable Chevron policies and environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. For more, see our Business Conduct and Ethics Code and Business Conduct and Ethics Expectations for Suppliers and Contractors, both available on chevron.com. 
director skills and expertise 
number of directors with relevant skills 
CEO/senior exec./leader of significant business operations: 9 
Science/technology/engineering/research/academia: 9 
Government/regulatory/legal/public policy: 9 
Finance/financial disclosure/financial accounting: 11 
Global business/international affairs: 10 
Environmental: 8 
chevron.com/sustainability 
29   
  
  
  
                          
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
Bunmi Fajusigbe 
International
 
Government
 
Affairs Advisor
 “I believe corporate 
advocacy is here 
to stay it’s a tool 
that’s imperative when 
evaluating business 
opportunities and issues.” 
public policy 
Public policy decisions can significantly affect Chevron’s strategies, capital investments, operations and, ultimately, shareholder value. Therefore, Chevron exercises its fundamental right and responsibility to participate in the political process and ensure lawmakers are informed by our expertise and insights when developing energy policy. Chevron does so through political contributions, direct and indirect lobbying, and participation in various business and policy associations that advocate for free markets and fair energy industry legislation and regulations. By participating in industry and trade associations, Chevron has the best opportunity to advance its perspectives and shape positions that better align with our values and the long-term interests of shareholders. On an annual basis, the PPC reviews Chevron’s political contributions and lobbying to assess the value of these activities and ensure alignment with Chevron’s positions and interests. Where appropriate, senior Chevron staff serve on trade association boards and advisory committees to directly engage the associations. However, Chevron may not agree with every position taken by the industry or the trade associations it supports. All trade associations in which a portion of funds are anticipated to be used for lobbying purposes go through a rigorous budgeting process. Chevron’s trade association memberships for which annual dues paid are $100,000 or more each and a portion of the dues may be used for lobbying are listed at right. Chevron adheres to the highest ethical standards when engaging in political activities, ensures these activities align with corporate goals, and complies with the letter and spirit of all laws and regula­tions governing lobbying activities and disclosure. 2019 trade association 
memberships* 
national/regional/local organizations 
(Expenditures allocated for lobbying are disclosed as 
required by the governing jurisdiction.) 
• American Chemistry Council 
• American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers 
• American Petroleum Institute 
• Business Roundtable 
• California Business Roundtable 
• California Chamber of Commerce 
• California Independent Petroleum Association 
• Civil Justice Reform Group 
• Consumer Energy Alliance 
• Greater Houston Partnership 
• Independent Petroleum Association of America 
• Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil & Gas Association 
• Louisiana Oil & Gas Association 
• Marcellus Shale Coalition 
• National Association of Manufacturers 
• National Petroleum Council 
• Natural Gas Supply Association 
• New Mexico Oil & Gas Association 
• Texas Oil & Gas Association 
• U.S. Chamber Institute for Legal Reform 
• U.S. Chamber Litigation Center 
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
• U.S. Oil & Gas Association 
• United Anglers 
• United States Council for International Business 
• Western States Petroleum Association 
See chevron.com/2019tradeassociations . 
*This list identifies Chevron’s 2019 trade association memberships where dues paid 
are $100,000 or more annually, and a portion of the dues may be used for lobbying. These organizations represent approximately 94 percent of the company’s annual trade association membership expenditures. 
additional resources 
chevron.com/thechevronway 
chevron.com/sustainability 
30 —chevron.com/sustainability
30 
 
 
 
 
   
  - - - 
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
 building an enduring
culture of safety 
learn more chevron.com/workforce health and safety we strive to continuously 
improve our safety performance 
question
and 
answer 
with dave payne, 
katie jones 
and arian saffari 
Right:  Communications Specialist Katie Jones and 
Lead Environmental Engineer Arian Saffari (right) discuss Chevron’s culture of safety with Vice President of Health, Environment and Safety Dave Payne (left). Jones and Saffari are engineers who participate in Chevron’s Horizons program, a formal five-year training program for recent graduates to expand technical experience and job skills. 
“All innovation is driven 
by human inspiration, creativity 
and ingenuity—our people 
are behind the improvements 
we see in safety each year. ”
 Dave Payne 
Vice President, 
Health, Environment and Safety 
Jones: What is the key to sustaining a culture of safety in Chevron’s diverse operations across the globe? 
Payne: The key to an enduring safety culture 
is consistent leadership at all levels of the organization. We work hard to share consistent expectations with leaders and then hold them accountable, including through our corporate Operational Excellence (OE) audit program. We incorporated Human Performance into our updated OE Management System (OEMS). Human Performance is the way of thinking about how people, culture, equipment, work systems and processes interact as a system. Human Performance is not a program, a single process or standard. Human Performance connects these components to proactively reduce human failure and its outcomes. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
31 —  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
—  
  “Our culture demands that 
we work to improve in safety 
performance every year.”
 Dave Payne 
Vice President,
 
Health, Environment and Safety
 
Saffari: What innovations have helped us create an enduring culture of safety at Chevron? 
Payne:
 Innovation is not what creates an 
enduring safety culture. An enduring safety culture creates innovation. Our culture demands that we work to eliminate serious injuries and fatalities and that we work to improve in safety performance every year. We cannot do that by simply getting better at doing the same thing. We must innovate, and we are constantly working to achieve that aspiration. Some innovation is technology-based, such as electronic work permits. Some is organizational, such as creating Operational Excellence Leadership Teams. And some is science-based, such as human performance. All innovation is driven by human inspiration, creativity and ingenuity—our people are behind the improvements we see in safety each year. 
Jones: How do we keep people motivated to work safely every day? 
Payne: 
We motivate people by making 
safety personal, both for frontline workers and supervisors. We talk to workers about what is important to them—their family, co-workers, hobbies—and then discuss the potential impact of getting hurt or worse. We ask challenging questions like: What would happen to your family if you didn’t come home? These conversations shift the focus from compliance to something much more personal. For supervisors, we expect them to demonstrate authentic care and concern for their workforce. We want them to focus on safety because they truly care about people. When it’s personal, it’s easier to be consistent and make difficult decisions. 
Saffari: Can you share an example of how we applied a lesson learned or a best practice across all of our operations? 
Payne: 
One example of a lesson learned we 
applied across the business is the Learning Team tool, which was initially adopted in our refineries. This tool emphasizes giving workers a voice in their operations, and it has spread rapidly across the entire enterprise. A second example is our Verification and Validation (V&V) Coaching Program. This program was developed in our San Joaquin Valley business unit, was subsequently rolled out to all of our Upstream business units and is now being adapted for our Downstream operations. Both of these efforts promote leader engagement and learning from those closest to the work that is actually being performed. 
“Innovation is not what creates an enduring safety culture. 
An enduring safety culture creates innovation.” 
— Dave Payne 
Vice President, Health, Environment and Safety 
chevron.com/sustainability 
32 advancing operational 
excellence together 
learn more chevron.com/oe we continuously improve how we work to 
reduce health, safety and environmental risks 
chevron.com/sustainability
32 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
-
 
 
 
 Olukayode Alade 
Verification and 
Validation Coach, Business 
Services Department
 
“Assuring critical
 
safeguards are in place 
before starting a high risk 
task is an important 
step in prioritizing safety, 
so I coach employees 
and contractors to 
assess their work using
 
standardized protocols
 
before they begin.”
 
Chevron’s leaders drive our culture of Operational Excellence (OE) by managing risk and learning from each other. We focus on performing every task the right way, every time, to keep our people, partners, communities and the environment safe. Our OE objectives and expectations guide our efforts in six key focus areas: workforce safety and health; process safety, reliability and integrity; environment; efficiency; security; and stakeholders. 2019 was our second-safest year in recent history. This success is a credit to the Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), established in 2004 to manage health, safety and environmental risks. The OEMS enables us to assess risks, identify safeguards and implement programs to assure these safeguards are effective. We constantly strive to learn and innovate to keep people safe. 
Above right:  Personnel at our San Joaquin Valley business unit in California add 
another layer of safeguards by working with Verification and Validation coaches prior to beginning work on a specialized oil rig. enhancing our culture of learning to improve safety 
Chevron is committed to continuously improving safety. We create tools to help leaders build more reliable systems, promote open communication on safety issues and establish a culture of learning. As part of these efforts, Human Performance was established as a common expectation in our 2018 update of the OEMS. Human Performance draws on the expertise of our people who have direct experience with high-risk work, helping to improve safety every day. In 2019, we deployed A Leader’s Guide to Human Performance Deployment . The guide is a companywide roadmap—developed 
by those closest to the work that is actually being done in the field—to help our teams achieve safe and reliable outcomes. It provides operational standards and best practices but also enables implementation to be adapted for localized needs. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
33   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 coaching program adds a new layer of safeguards 
Our OEMS relies on a layered approach to prevent incidents. For example, at oil rigs and natural gas facilities, our approach starts with written and digital checklists required for specific work, verification that safeguards are completed and a final review immediately before work begins. Our Verification and Validation (V&V) Coaching Program adds another layer of protection and training. Through V&V, coaches from more mature business units mentor less established ones and business unit leaders share best practices to improve safeguards. Since it began in 2018, the program has enabled 146 full-time coaches to provide safety training to workers and managers in more than 31,500 engagements. 
146
 
full-time coaches in the Verification and 
Validation Coaching Program add 
another layer of safeguards and training 
for our employees around the world 
managing risk in operational 
excellence focus areas 
Our Operational Excellence Management System enables us to systematically manage risk and comply with legal requirements across the following OE focus areas: 
environment efficiency 
workforce 
safety 
and health 
Eliminate fatalities, serious 
injuries and illnesses process safety, 
reliability 
and integrity 
Eliminate high-consequence 
process safety incidents 
and operate with industry-
leading reliability 
Assess and manage significant 
environmental risks Use energy and 
resources efficiently 
security 
Prevent high-consequence 
security and 
cybersecurity incidents stakeholders 
Address OE business 
risks through stakeholder 
engagement and issues 
management 
Above:  A quarantine advisor at Chevron inspects equipment before it travels to 
Barrow Island, a Class A nature reserve. 
additional resources 
chevron.com/oems 
chevron.com/sustainability 
34 chevron.com/sustainability
34   
 
 
 
  environment | social | governance
 
progress 
and performance
 
we demonstrate our commitment 
to transparency by reporting metrics 
and performance data annually
 
36 38 46 
contributing to performance additional 
the SDGs data information 
chevron.com/sustainability 
35  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 contributing to the SDGs
 
we work to advance the UN’s sustainable 
development goals as part of our commitment to 
enable human progress around the world 
learn more chevron.com/sdgs 
Dee Bourbon 
Corporate 
Affairs Advisor
 
“It is amazing to 
see what a difference 
our investments make 
in the community. 
It’s important work; 
we make valuable 
contributions to building
 
strong, sustainable
 
communities.”
 
Goals (SDGs), which we view as a system of targets and objectives that build on each other to achieve a more sustainable future and make progress toward the global 2030 agenda. We believe the next 
2030
 We are proud to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development decade will be full of partnership, action and growth, and we are well-positioned to be part of the solution: Chevron is a company full of doers with a long history of solving complex challenges, and we will continue to innovate for the future. Chevron touches all 17 SDGs through our day-to-day operations, partnership initiatives and social investment opportunities; however, we focus on five goals discussed on the following page that identify where we believe we can make our greatest contri­bution. We work with key partners, communities and industry groups to maximize positive outcomes and continually deepen our understanding of sustainable development. 
Meeting the 2030 global agenda will require 
partnership, innovation and action; we 
are well-positioned to be part of the solution.
 
Above:  The Jibika project, launched in 2015 as part of our Bangladesh Partnership 
Initiative, has provided leadership training and economic opportunities for nearly 800 women. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
36 chevron.com/sustainability
36   
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
      
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
     
  
    
 SDG 3: 
good health and well-being 
ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 
Chevron continually invests in programs that create local partner­ships and build capacity, such as Chevron Australia’s new Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). We partner with the Heart Foundation to support the Pilbara Aboriginal Heart Health Program and fight heart disease, which is the leading cause of death for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians. We work with local leaders, such as Yorga Djenna Bidi graduates, and community groups to deliver culturally appropriate heart health activities and education to help reduce cardiovascular disease and close the gap in life expectancy among the Onslow, Karratha and Roebourne communities in Western Australia. 
SDG 4: 
quality education 
ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 
Chevron invests in a comprehensive range of education activities. We encourage students to pursue STEM opportunities; we provide career, teacher and technical training; and we form innovative partnerships with universities and other stakeholders. Chevron’s Enjoy Science Project is a $30 million, five-year program to strengthen STEM and vocational education across schools in Thailand. Through collaboration with partners in civil society, academia, the private sector and government, the program is on track to improve STEM instruction at more than 600 schools, build capacity for approx­imately 10,000 teachers and directly impact 500,000 people. 
SDG 7: 
affordable and clean energy 
ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and 
modern energy for all 
At Chevron, we deliver the energy that improves lives and enables human progress. There are 7.6 billion people on the planet today. By 2040, there will be over 9 billion, leading to a 30 percent increase in energy demand. Yet even today, nearly 1 billion people have little or no access to affordable and reliable energy. We leverage our people and expertise to solve this complex problem by developing more energy while protecting the environment. 
SDG 8: 
decent work and economic growth 
promote sustained, inclusive and sustain­
able economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 
In February, Chevron announced a $5 million grant to Catalyst, a global nonprofit advancing workplace gender equality with whom we partnered in 2016 to launch the Men Advocating Real Change (MARC) global program. The grant, the largest Catalyst has received in its more than 50-year history, will allow the organization to continue its groundbreaking research, programming, products and events aimed at accelerating gender inclusion across all industry workforces. 
Chevron is working to address the impacts of a changing climate by SDG 13: delivering affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy; reducing our 
climate action own emissions; and investing in lower-carbon energy breakthroughs. See pages 9–12  to learn more about our efforts to address climate change. take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 
chevron.com/sustainability 
37    
  
 
  
 
   environmental performance table continues on page 39 
*The data included in our 2019 performance data table are informed by internationally recognized reporting standards and frameworks. While Chevron relies primarily on the reporting guidelines, 
indicators and terminology in the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting  (2015) by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), 
the International Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) Association and the American Petroleum Institute (API) to determine what data to include in the table, the content for this table and the larger report 
was identified through prior issue prioritization processes and current year external engagements with stakeholders. Our 2019 performance data table includes an index column that maps Chevron’s data 
to the corresponding relevant 2015 IPIECA standards.
 
** We used the general SASB topics to organize Chevron’s table and provide an index column to identify common reporting elements between our current reporting data and the related SASB standards. 
The SASB index is based solely on Chevron’s interpretation and judgment. The inclusion of the SASB index does not indicate the application of definitions, metrics, measurements, standards or approaches 
set forth in the SASB framework. Please refer to the notes for information about Chevron’s data reporting basis. As reflected in the table, Chevron currently discloses data on a number of issues recom­
mended in the SASB Oil and Gas Exploration and Production; Midstream; and Refining and Marketing standards. Further, there are many topics on which Chevron discloses data beyond the SASB framework. 
SASB recommendations not addressed in the data table are being studied by Chevron for potential future inclusion. Chevron could determine that some SASB recommendations do not reflect useful 
sustainability performance information or would be overly burdensome to implement on a global basis; such disclosures will not be included in a future data table. We strive to continually improve our data 
performance reporting, and we believe that our SASB index is a positive step in further aligning our ESG reporting to SASB framework recommendations. We also continue to assess alignment with other 
emerging frameworks. 
footnotes are on page 45 chevron.com/sustainability 
38 environmental performance  1, 2
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 SASB IPIECA
greenhouse gas emissions — E1
equity basis — —
Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), equity basis 
(million metric tons of CO 2-equivalent)  3 55 59 58 58EM-EP-110a.1
EM-MD-110a.1
EM-RM-110a.1E1/C1
E1/S1
GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2), 
equity basis (million metric tons of CO 2-equivalent ) 4 2 3 3 3 3 — E1/C2
GHG emissions from exported electricity and steam,  
equity basis (a type of Scope 3 emissions) (million metric 
tons of CO 2-equivalent) 41 1 1 1 1 — E1/O4
Upstream GHG intensity performance metrics, equity basis 
(metric tons of CO 2-equivalent/MBOE)  6 — —
Oil intensity 31.4 35.3 35.4 40.5not 
applicable — —
Gas intensity 30.0 34.1 32.7 31.6not 
applicable — —
Flaring intensity 4.6 6.3 6.6 8.7not 
applicable — —
Methane intensity 2.4 2.6 3.1 4.3not 
applicable — —GHG emissions from third-party use of our products, equity 
basis (Scope 3) (million metric tons o f CO 2-equivalent) 5
Production 412 396 377 364 368 — —
Throughput 391 392 377 368 370 — —
Sales 639 628 613 598 617 — —— E1/S2performance data
these tables include our environmental,  
safety and social performance data *
Chevron has taken steps to initially align our performance data  
table with the recommendations of the Sustainable Accounting Standards  
Board (SASB) voluntary framework as reflected in the SASB inde x.** 
For more details about Chevron’s approach to ESG reporting, visit  
chevron.com/sustainability/performance/reporting .
To create customized charts and tables using our performance data, visit  
chevron.com/sustainability/performance/chart-generator .
***Updated to reflect prior restatement in 2018.57***chevron.com/sustainability
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  environmental performance,1, 2 continued 
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 SASB IPIECA 
operated basis — — 
Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis 
(million metric tons o f CO 2-equivalent)3 60 66 64 64 66 EM-EP-110a.1 
EM-MD-110a.1 
EM-RM-110a.1 E1/C1 
E1/S1 
Methane emissions, direct, operated basis 
(million metric tons o f CO 2-equivalent)3 4 4 4 6 6 EM-EP-110a.1 
EM-MD-110a.1 
EM-RM-110a.1 E1/C1 
GHG emissions from imported electricity and steam (Scope 2), 
operated basis (million metric tons o f CO 2-equivalent)4 1 2 2 2 2 — E1/C2 
Upstream direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis 
(million metric tons o f CO 2-equivalent)3 44 47 46 45 47 EM-EP-110a.1 E1/C3 
Refining direct GHG emissions (Scope 1), operated basis 
(million metric tons o f CO 2-equivalent)3, 7 14 15 15 15 15 — E1/C3 
Upstream average flare gas volume rate, direct, operated 
basis (million standard cubic feet per day) 339 467 556 625 615 EM-EP-110a.1 E4/S1 
energy efficiency8 — E2 
Total energy consumption, operated assets and 
nonoperated joint-venture refineries (trillion BTUs) 894 922 820 830 865 — E2/C1 
Total energy consumption, operated assets 736 760 664 671 711 — E2/C1 
Total energy consumption, operated assets and 
nonoperated joint-venture refineries (million gigajoules) 943 973 865 876 913 — E2/C1 
Total energy consumption, operated assets 776 802 701 708 750 — E2/C1 
Manufacturing Energy Index (Refining) (no units) 85.0 85.0 85.0 84.6 85.2 — E2/S2 
Upstream Energy Intensity (thousand BTUs per barrel of 
oil-equivalent) 352 349 303 308 330 — E2/S2 
Pipeline Energy Intensity (BTUs per barrel of oil­
equivalent-mile) 8 11 13 20 24 — E2/S2 
Shipping Energy Intensity (BTUs per metric ton–mile) 70 75 70 43 32 — E2/S2 
Non-Manufacturing Energy Index (Oronite, Lubricants, etc.) 
(no units) 67 74 75 75 79 — E2/S2 
air quality 9 — E8 
Total volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted (thousand 
metric tons) 99 101 147 144 EM-EP-120a.1 
EM-MD-120a.1 
EM-RM-120a.1 E8/C1 
Total sulfur oxides (SO x) emitted (thousand metric tons) 36 40 52 66 84 EM-EP-120a.1 
EM-MD-120a.1 
EM-RM-120a.1 E8/C1 
Total nitrogen oxides (NO x) emitted (thousand metric tons) 123 142 147 148 148 EM-EP-120a.1 
EM-MD-120a.1 
EM-RM-120a.1 E8/C1 
environmental performance table continues on page 40 
footnotes are on page 45 chevron.com/sustainability 
39 139*
*Updated to reflect prior restatement in 2018.  –  
 
 
   
 
 
   environmental performance,1, 2 continued 
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 SASB 
— IPIECA 
— water management 
natural resources water10 — E6 
Fresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 71 71 74 80 78 EM-EP-140a.1 
EM-RM-140a.1 E6/C1 
Fresh water consumed (million cubic meters) 70 70 73 79 77 EM-EP-140a.1 
EM-RM-140a.1 E6/C2 
Nonfresh water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 45 39 41 36 43 EM-EP-140a.2 E6/O2 
E6/O7 
wastewater11 — E7 
Average oil concentration in discharges to surface water (parts per million) EM-EP-140a.2 — 
Upstream 8 7 8 9 10 — E7/C1 
Refining 1 1 1 1 1 — E7/C 2 
Total amount of oil discharged to surface water (thousand metric tons) EM-EP-140a.1 — 
Upstream 0.7 0.7 0.9 1.2 1.3 — E7/C1 
Refining 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 — E7/C 2 
accidental release prevention & response12, 13 — E9 
Petroleum spills to land and water (volume in thousand barrels) 0.79 1.02 1.46 0.36 0.78 EM-EP-160a.2 
EM-MP-160a.4 E9/C2 
Total volume recovered 0.64 0.85 1.15 0.21 0.64 EM-EP-160a.2 
EM-MP-160a.4 E9/S1 
Petroleum spills to land and water (number of spills) 50 60 56 49 63 EM-EP-160a.2 
EM-MP-160a.4 E9/C2 
Spills of significance (number of spills) 7 6 9 9 14 EM-EP-160a.2 
EM-MP-160a.4 E9/C2 
waste14 — E10 
Hazardous waste generated (million metric tons) 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.7 EM-EP-150a.1 E10/O3 
Hazardous waste disposed of (million metric tons) 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.3 — E10/C1 
Hazardous waste recycled (million metric tons) 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.4 EM-EP-150a.1 E10/S2 
fines and settlements15 — — 
Number of environmental, health and safety fines paid and settlements entered into, equity basis 98 64 102 102 135 — — 
Cost of environmental, health and safety fines paid and settlements entered into, equity basis (millions of dollars) $16.1 $9.1 $40.5 $6.7 $3.9 
— — 
footnotes are on page 45 chevron.com/sustainability 
40 chevron.com/sustainability
40  
 *The current SASB framework does not cover Human Capital Management.
 
** Includes employees in the following U.S. EEOC classifications: Two or More Races, Native American or Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander.
 
footnotes are on page 45 chevron.com/sustainability 
41 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015  SAS B* IPIECA
Percent women among total employees 30 31 30 30 30 — SE15/C2
Percent representation among total employees 41 41 39 38 37 — SE15/C2
Caucasian 59 59 61 62 63 — SE15/C2
Asian 14 14 13 13 13 — SE15/C2
Latino 16 16 15 14 13 — SE15/C2
Black 8 8 8 8 8 — SE15/C2
Other Ethnicities ** 3 3 3 3 3 — SE15/C2
Percent women among executives and senior managers 24 22 19 18 17 — SE15/C2
Percent representation among executives and senior managers 22 19 16 13 13 — SE15/C2
Caucasian 78 81 84 87 87 — SE15/C2
Asian 10 9 7 6 6 — SE15/C2
Latino 6 6 5 4 5 — SE15/C2
Black 4 3 3 3 2 — SE15/C2
Other Ethnicities ** 1 0.9 0.5 0.3 0.4 — SE15/C2
Percent women among first- and mid-level managers 31 30 29 29 28 — SE15/C2
Percent representation among first- and mid-level managers 34 33 32 30 29 — SE15/C2
Caucasian 66 67 68 70 71 — SE15/C2
Asian 12 12 12 12 12 — SE15/C2
Latino 12 12 12 11 9 — SE15/C2
Black 8 7 7 6 7 — SE15/C2
Other Ethnicities ** 2 1 1 2 2 — SE15/C2
Percent women among professionals 33 33 33 33 33 — SE15/C2
Percent representation among professionals 38 36 35 35 35 — SE15/C2
Caucasian 62 64 65 65 65 — SE15/C2
Asian 16 16 16 16 15 — SE15/C2
Latino 12 11 11 10 10 — SE15/C2
Black 7 7 7 7 8 — SE15/C2
Other Ethnicities ** 2 2 2 2 2 — SE15/C2U.S. equal employment opportunity commission statistics 16  *The current SASB framework does not cover Human Capital Management. 
footnotes are on page 45 chevron.com/sustainability 
42 global employee diversity 16
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015  SAS B* IPIECA
Number of regular employees at year-end 44,679 45,047 48,456 51,953 58,178 — —
Number of service station employees at year-end 3,476 3,591 3,298 3,248 3,316 — SE15/O1
Number of U.S. employees at year-end 22,165 21,465 22,048 23,418 26,448 — SE15/O1
Percent U.S. employees represented by unions 11 11 11 11 10 — SE15/O1
Percent women represented in total workforce 25 25 25 24 24 — SE15/C2
Percent women represented at mid-level management 20 19 19 18 17 — SE15/S2
Percent women represented at senior leadership 19 19 18 16 16 — SE15/S2
Percent of women represented at executive leadership 15 16 14 14 15 — SE15/S2
Percent women and minority men represented at senior  and executive leadership38 36 34 31 31 — SE15/S2
Percent employees working in their home country 92 96 95 94 93 — SE15/O1
Percent workforce in North America 49 47 44 45 45 — SE15/O1
Percent workforce in Asia-Pacific 27 28 28 28 29 — SE15/O1
Percent workforce in Africa 11 11 14 14 13 — SE15/O1
Percent workforce in Europe/Middle East 7 9 8 7 7 — SE15/O1
Percent workforce in South America 3 4 3 4 4 — SE15/O1
supply chain 17, 18
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015  SASB IPIECA
Total goods and services spending (billions of dollars) $27.1 $25.1 $24.8 $27.3 $35.8 — —
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based businesses (billions of dollars)$13.2 $11.6 $11.2 $10.7 $13.5 — SE7/S1
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based small businesses (billions of dollars)$1.7 $1.7 $1.6 $1.7 $2.1 — SE7/S2
Total goods and services spending with U.S.-based woman- and minority-owned businesses (billions of dollars)$0.6 $0.7 $0.6 $0.5 $0.7 — SE7/S2chevron.com/sustainability
42   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    workforce health and safety19, 20 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 SASB 
EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 IPIECA 
HS3/C1 
Workforce 0.15 0.13 0.13 0.14 0.18 — — 
Benchmark 0.22 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.23 — — 
Employees 0.13 0.07 0.09 0.10 0.10 EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 — 
Benchmark 0.20 0.21 0.23 0.24 0.24 — — 
Contractors 0.16 0.15 0.15 0.16 0.20 EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 — 
Benchmark 0.22 0.28 0.28 0.27 0.22 — — 
Lost-Time Incident Frequency (Days Away From Work incidents and fatalities per million work-hours)
 21 — HS3/C1 
Workforce 0.09 0.08 0.09 0.10 0.10 — — 
Benchmark 0.22 0.31 0.25 0.28 0.28 — — 
Employees 0.17 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.10 — — 
Benchmark 0.27 0.32 0.28 0.32 0.38 — — 
Contractors 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.11 0.10 — — 
Benchmark 0.20 0.30 0.23 0.25 0.23 — — 
Days Away From Work Rate (incidents per 200,000 work-hours) — HS3/C1 
Workforce 0.018 0.016 0.016 0.017 0.019 — — 
Benchmark 0.043 0.062 0.048 0.051 0.054 
— — 
Employees 0.033 0.013 0.012 0.018 0.020 — — 
Benchmark 0.052 0.065 0.054 0.063 0.075 — — 
Contractors 0.013 0.017 0.018 0.016 0.018 — — 
Benchmark 0.039 0.060 0.045 0.044 0.044 — — 
Number of work-related fatalities EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 HS3/C1 
Workforce 2 0 6 10 3 — — 
Employees 0 0 2 1 0 EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 — 
Contractors 2 0 4 9 3 EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 — 
Work-related fatal accident rate (work-related employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours) EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 HS3/C1 
Workforce 0.43 0.00 1.32 2.03 0.51 — — 
Benchmark 0.60 0.26 0.85 2.23 0.63 — — 
Employees 0.00 0.00 1.77 0.82 0.00 EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 — 
Contractors 0.56 0.00 1.17 2.44 0.67 EM-EP-320a.2 
EM-RM-320a.2 — 
workforce health and safety table continues on page 44 
footnotes are on page 45 chevron.com/sustainability 
43 footnotes are on page 45 chevron.com/sustainability 
44 ESG qualitative metrics
greenhouse gas emissions chevron resources SASB IPIECA
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy  or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions and emissions  reduction targets.chevron.com/climatechangechevron.com/climatechangeresiliencechevron.com/updatetoclimatechangeresilienceEM-EP-110a.3
EM-MD-110a.2
EM-RM-110a.2E1
biodiversity impacts chevron resources SASB IPIECA
Description of environmental management policies  and practices for active sites. chevron.com/environmentchevron.com/environment/biodiversityEM-EP-160a.1
EM-MD-160a.1E5
security, human rights and indigenous rights chevron resources SASB IPIECA
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence practices with respect to human rights, indigenous  rights and security.
chevron.com/humanrights EM-EP-210a.3 SE8
workforce health and safety chevron resources SASB IPIECA
Discussion of management systems used to integrate  a culture of safety. chevron.com/oemschevron.com/workforce-health-and-safetyEM-EP-320a.2
EM-MD-540a.4
EM-RM-320a.2HS2
business ethics and transparency chevron resources SASB IPIECA
Description of the management system for prevention  of corruption and bribery throughout the value chain. chevron.com/businessconductethicscodechevron.com /-/media/shared-media/documents/SupplierExpectations.pdfEM-EP-510a.2SE11SE12
management of the legal & regulatory environment chevron resources SASB IPIECA
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations and/or policy proposals that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry. chevron.com/investors/corporate-governance/political-contributionschevron.com/climatechangeEM-EP-530a.1
EM-RM-530a.1SE14
critical incident risk management chevron resources SASB IPIECA
Description of management systems used to identify  and mitigate risks. chevron.com/oemschevron.com/sustainability/environment/managing-carbon-risk#ermEM-EP-540a.2E1
HS5
community relations chevron resources SASB IPIECA
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities associated with community rights and interests. chevron.com/sustainability/socialchevron.com/engagingstakeholdersEM-EP-210b.1 SE1workforce health and safety,  19,20 continued
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 SASB IPIECA
Work-related fatal incident rate (work-related incidents with employee or contractor fatalities per 100 million work-hours)0.43 0.00 1.32 0.81 0.51EM-EP-320a.2  
EM-RM-320a.2HS3/C1
Motor Vehicle Crash Rate (workforce vehicle incidents per million miles driven)  
22 0.02 0.02 0.04 0.03 0.02 — —
Number of process safety Tier 1 events (ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 guidance)  
23 15 16 22 22 29 EM-EP-540a.1 HS5/C1
Upstream 10 9 14 16 18 — —
Downstream & Chemicals 4 6 7 6 10 — —
Midstream 1 1 1 0 1 — —
Technology, Projects and Services 0 0 0 0 0 — —chevron.com/sustainability
45chevron.com/sustainability
44 1 Unless otherwise noted, this section reflects 2019 data collected as of April 16, 2020. All data are reported on an operated basis unless otherwise noted.
 2 The World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Develop­ment Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard  
defines three “scopes” that Chevron uses to report GHG emissions. Scope 1 includes direct emissions from sources within a facility, and for 2019 has been 
updated to remove previously included third­party vessels per industry guid ­
ance. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from electricity and steam that Chevron facilities import. Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions. Chevron reports information related to Scope 3 emissions from third­party use of our products.
  All six Kyoto GHGs—carbon dioxide ( CO
2), methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), 
sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons—are included  
in Chevron’s Scope 1 emissions. CO 2, CH 4 and N 2O are accounted for in Chevron’s 
Scope 2 emissions and in Chevron’s Scope 3 emissions related to the electricity and steam that Chevron exports to third parties.
  The following entities are not currently included in the 2019 Chevron corporate GHG inventory: Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, and other nonoperated assets in which Chevron has an equity interest of 16 percent  
or less. Information regarding GHG emissions from Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC can be found at cpchem.com .
  Calculation methods are based on API’s Compendium of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry  (2009) or where 
relevant, local regulatory reporting methodologies.
 3 Direct GHG emissions related to production  of energy in the form of electricity or 
steam exported or sold to a third party have been included in the reported Scope 1 emissions to conform to the 2015 IPIECA  reporting guidance.
  2019 direct GHG emissions decreased in part as a result of divestment of Cape Town Refinery and assets in IndoAsia business unit. Emissions from the nonoper ­
ated assets in Canada business unit have been revised for 2019 to reflect more site­specific data.
 4 Restated indirect emissions and emissions from exported electricity and steam from 2015 to 2018. Scope 2 emissions are accounted for using the market­  
based approach as described in the World Resources Institute’s GHG Protocol 
Scope 2 Guidance .
 5 
 6 Emissions reported are net (Scope 1) and (Scope 2). The emissions included in the  
metrics generally represent the equity­share of emissions, which are emissions from operated and nonoperated joint­venture (NOJV) assets. The scope may include sources outside of traditional scoping of equity emissions, including  
captive emissions from processes like drilling and completions and tolling agree ­
ments up to the point of third­party custody transfer of the oil or gas product.
  For oil and gas production intensity metrics, allocation of emissions between  
oil and gas are based on the fraction of production represented by liquids or gas. Production is aligned with values reported as net production in the Chevron 
Corporation Supplement to the Annual Report .
  Flaring and methane intensities use the total of liquids and gas production.  
Oil and gas production intensities use liquids production and natural gas produc ­
tion, respectively.
 7 For 2019, Chevron is reporting only on direct emissions, not intensity.
 8 Total energy consumption decreased due primarily to divestiture of Cape Town Refinery and removal of third­party vessels.
  Refining energy performance is measured by the Manufacturing Energy Index (MEI), which is calculated using the Solomon Energy Intensity Index methodology. MEI includes operated assets and nonoperated joint­venture refineries.
  Energy performance for Oronite, Lubricants, Americas Products and International Products is measured by the Non­Manufacturing Energy Index, which is the energy required to produce Chevron products compared to the energy that would have been required to produce the same products in 1992 (the index’s base year).
 9 For compiling and reporting air emissions data, Chevron follows regulatory defini ­
tions of VOC. SO
x emissions include SO 2 and SO 3, reported as SO 2­equivalent. NO x 
emissions include NO and NO 2 (reported as NO 2­equivalent) and exclude N 2O.
  VOC, SO x and NO x emissions decreased in 2019 in part due to asset divestments, 
transfers of operatorship, ends of contract, and refinements made in data calcula ­
tion methods. 10 Fresh water withdrawn from the environment is defined per local legal definitions. If no local definition exists, fresh water is defined as water extracted, directly or indirectly, from surface water, groundwater or rainwater that has a total dissolved solids concentration of less than or equal to 2,000 mg/L. Fresh water withdrawn does not include effluent or recycled/reclaimed water from municipal or other industrial wastewater treatment systems, as this water is reported under nonfresh water withdrawn. 
  Nonfresh water withdrawn could include: seawater; brackish groundwater or surface water; reclaimed wastewater from another municipal or industrial facility; desalinated water; or remediated groundwater used for industrial purposes.
  Produced water is excluded from fresh water withdrawn, fresh water consumed and nonfresh water withdrawn. 
  Nonfresh water withdrawn totals increased in 2019 in part due to an increase in well completions in the Mid­Continent business unit, which use brackish water, as well as an increase in municipal reclaimed water use in Richmond Refinery.
 11 Oil concentration is determined by the sampling of effluent streams, using methods required or recommended by regulatory agencies or authorities, where applicable. Chevron reports the total cumulative amount of oil discharged to surface water excluding spills, which are reported separately.
 12 Chevron reports petroleum spills to land and water to conform to the 2015 IPIECA  
reporting guidance. Spills to land and water that are greater than or equal to one barrel are included. Spills to secondary containment, chemical spills and spills due to sabotage are excluded.
 13 The seven (7) spills of significance that Chevron experienced in 2019 ranged in size from 0.02 to 0.4 thousand barrels. Of the one (1.14) thousand barrels spilled in total, 0.6 were spilled to secondary containment.
  For purposes of conforming to the 2015 IPIECA  reporting guidance, Chevron 
defines a spill of significance as a process safety Tier 1 loss­of­primary­containment  
(LOPC) event (as defined by American National Standards Institute/American Petroleum Institute [ANSI/API] Recommended Practice [RP] 754) with a conse ­
quence of a release of material greater than the threshold quantities described in  
Table 1 of ANSI/API RP 754 in any one­hour period. Spills to secondary containment,  
regardless of actual environmental impact, are included, as are chemical spills. Releases to air are excluded.
 14 To conform to the 2015 IPIECA  reporting guidance, and where appropriate infor ­
mation and data exist, our hazardous waste numbers starting in 2015 exclude remediation waste generated, disposed of and recycled.
  Hazardous waste amounts are quantified using methods required or recommended  
by regulatory agencies or authorities, where applicable. In other instances,  
similar methods are used, including direct measurement onsite or at the point of shipping, engineering estimates, and process knowledge. Chevron follows the regulatory definitions of hazardous waste applicable to the jurisdictions in which we operate, including de minimis  specifications (below which hazardous waste 
quantities do not need to be reported).
 15 The 2018 data have been restated. The 2019 data are based on information received from government entities and recorded internally prior to the publication of this report.
 16 Global employee diversity data and data from the U.S. Equal Employment Oppor­  
tunity Commission have been rounded to the nearest integer for 2019 and previous  
years, and ethnicity/gender combined has been rounded to one decimal place.
  The Other Ethnicities category in the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission statistics includes Two or More Races, Native American or Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander.
  U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission statistics minority grouping includes ethnic diversity among both men and women.
  Our most recently filed Federal Employer Information Report EEO­1, representing employees as of December 2018, is available for download at chevron.com/eeo­1 .
 17 This section reflects data collected as of February 20, 2019, for years 2015–2018 and data collected as of January 23, 2020, for year 2019.
 18 Data exclude spend that is ultimately shared with our partners.
 19 This section reflects Chevron data collected as of February 12, 2019.
 20 Health and safety performance rates include both injury­ and illness­related  
incidents. API’s  Benchmarking Survey of Occupational Injuries, Illnesses  
and Fatalities in the Petroleum Industry  data are used as industry benchmarks .
 21 The 2018 data have been restated.
 22 Data include catastrophic and major incidents only.
 23 Process safety Tier 1 (LOPC) events are unplanned or uncontrolled releases resulting in consequences equivalent to those specified by ANSI/API RP 754 and International  Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Report 456: Process Safety 
Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators .notes to pages 38 through 44
Chevron calculated emissions from third­party use of our products in alignment  
with the three approaches in Category 11 of IPIECA’s Estimating Petroleum  
Industry Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (2006). The throughput approach includes refinery inputs, natural gas and natural gas liquids.    
 
   
  
        
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
    
 
  
 
  
 
 LR Independent Assurance Statement Relating to Chevron Corporation’s Corporate Sustainability Report for the Calendar Year 2019 
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Chevron U.S.A., Inc. in accordance with our contract, but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (LR) was commissioned by Chevron U.S.A. Inc. on behalf of Chevron Corporation (Chevron) to provide independent assurance on its processes used in the creation of the Corporate Sustainability Report (CSR) for calendar year 2019 to a reasonable level using LR’s verifica­tion approach. Our assurance engagement covered Chevron’s operations and activities worldwide and specifically covered the following requirements: • Reviewing the effectiveness of the processes for reporting health, environmental and safety (HES) IPIECA performance indicators. 
• Confirming consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015) industry guidelines. 
Our assurance engagement did not include verifying the accuracy of data and information reported in the CSR . 
LR’s responsibility is only to Chevron. LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. Chevron’s management is for collecting, aggregating, analyzing and presenting all the data and information within the CSR  and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which 
the CSR  is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains 
the responsibility of, Chevron. LR’s Opinion Based on LR’s approach, we believe that Chevron’s reporting processes were effective in delivering HES indicators that are useful for assessing corporate performance and reporting information consistent with common reporting elements in the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgment of the Verifier. LR’s Approach LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our Verification procedure. The following tasks, though, were undertaken as part of the evidence-gathering process for this assurance engagement: • Visiting Chevron in San Ramon, California, to review data collection and checking processes. Reviewing Chevron Upstream, Chevron Midstream and Chevron Downstream & Chemicals to assess business-unit understanding and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements. 
• Visiting Oronite facilities in Maua, Brazil and Singapore; Chevron Thailand Exploration and Production in Bangkok, Thailand; Latin America business unit in Buenos Aires, Argentina; and El Segundo Refinery in El Segundo, California, to assess local understanding and implementation of Chevron’s HES reporting requirements. • Interviewing key personnel to identify and gain an understanding of Chevron’s reporting requirements, including key persons responsible for drafting the CSR . 
• Reviewing Chevron’s documented reporting requirements to validate consistency of scope, definition and reporting requirements for each of the HES performance indicators. 
• Reviewing Chevron’s primary data collection tools to assess use in the reporting processes. 
• Evaluating consistency with the IPIECA/API/IOGP oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2015). 
Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: • Processes were in place to ensure that personnel contributing to HES metrics understood corporate reporting procedures and requirements. 
• Methods used for calculating each HES performance metric were clearly defined and communicated. 
• Chevron’s reporting requirements for HES metrics were understood and carried out. Data collected at the site/local and business-unit levels were checked and aggregated into corporationwide metrics. 
• Responsibility for annually reviewing and updating reporting guidelines was clear, with improvement in methodology regularly undertaken. 
LR’s Standards, Competence and Independence LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. LR is one of Chevron’s certification bodies for ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949 and greenhouse gas emissions verification. The certification assessments and verification are the only work undertaken by LR for Chevron and as such do not compromise our independence or impartiality. 
Andrea M. Bockrath LR Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 1330 Enclave Pkwy, Suite 200 Houston, TX 77077 April 26, 2020 LR Reference: UQA4000679 
Lloyd’s Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc., and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as “Lloyd’s Register.” Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information or advice, and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. 
The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2020. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
46 chevron.com/sustainability
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 about this report
 
additional environmental, social and governance 
reporting can be found at chevron.com/sustainability 
This report covers our owned and operated businesses and does not address the performance or operations of our suppliers, contractors and partners unless otherwise noted. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. This report contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron’s operations that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. These statements are not guarantees of future conduct or policy and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control, including government regula­tion and oil and gas prices. See Forward-Looking Statements Warning on right. Therefore, the actual conduct of our activities, including the development, implementation or continuation of any program, policy or initiative discussed or forecasted in this report, may differ materially in the future. As with any projections or estimates, actual results or numbers may vary. Many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation but should not be considered guarantees. The statements of intention in this report speak only as of the date of this report. Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any statements in this report. As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such terms as “the company,” “the corporation,” “our,” “its,” “we” and “us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’s consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them taken as a whole. All of these terms are used for convenience only and are not intended as a precise description of any of the separate companies, each of which manages its own affairs. 
Chevron Corporation Corporate Affairs 6001 Bollinger Canyon Road Building G San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA Produced by Corporate Affairs and Strategy & Sustainability, Chevron Corporation Design Sequel Studio, New York, sequelstudio.com Photo credits 7: Bill Nelson; 18, 28 and 36: Marc Marriott; 24: Evan Martin 
forward-looking statements warning 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This report contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron’s operations that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. Words or phrases such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “forecasts,” “projects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “schedules,” “estimates,” “positions,” “pursues,” “may,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “budgets,” “outlook,” “trends,” “guidance,” “focus,” “on schedule,” “on track,” “is slated,” “goals,” “objectives,” “strategies,” “opportunities,” “poised” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control and are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are, among others, changing crude oil and natural gas prices; changing refining, marketing and chemicals margins; the company’s ability to realize anticipated cost savings and expenditure reductions; actions of competitors or regulators; timing of exploration expenses; timing of crude oil liftings; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; the results of operations and financial condition of the company’s suppliers, vendors, partners and equity affiliates, particularly during extended periods of low prices for crude oil and natural gas; the inability or failure of the company’s joint-venture partners to fund their share of operations and development activities; the potential failure to achieve expected net production from existing and future crude oil and natural gas development projects; potential delays in the develop­ment, construction or start-up of planned projects; the potential disruption or interruption of the company’s operations due to war, accidents, political events, civil unrest, severe weather, cyber threats and terrorist acts, crude oil production quotas or other actions that might be imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or other natural or human causes beyond the company’s control; changing economic, regulatory and political environ­ments in the various countries in which the company operates; general domestic and international economic and political conditions; the potential liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; significant operational, investment or product changes required by existing or future environmental statutes and regulations, including international agreements and national or regional legislation and regulatory measures to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions; the potential liability resulting from other pending or future litigation; the company’s future acquisition or disposition of assets or shares or the delay or failure of such transactions to close based on required closing conditions; the potential for gains and losses from asset dispositions or impairments; government-mandated sales, divestitures, recapitalizations, industry-specific taxes, tariffs, sanctions, changes in fiscal terms or restrictions on scope of company operations; foreign currency movements compared with the U.S. dollar; material reductions in corporate liquidity and access to debt markets; the effects of changed accounting rules under generally accepted accounting principles promulgated by rule-setting bodies; the company’s ability to identify and mitigate the risks and hazards inherent in operating in the global energy industry; and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” on pages 18 through 21 of the company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. 
chevron.com/sustainability 
47   
    
 
 
 
www.fsc.orglearn more
 
if you are interested in learning more
 
or continuing the conversation, we welcome 
you to engage with us on social media 
@chevron @chevron @chevron @chevron @chevron 
For additional information about corporate sustainability  
at Chevron, visit chevron.com/sustainability. 
To create customized charts and tables using our performance data,  
visit chevron.com/sustainability/performance/chart-generator. 
For additional investor resources about our ESG  
reporting, visit chevron.com/sustainability/performance/reporting.
 
Scan this QR code with your smartphone to access 
Chevron’s Sustainability homepage, where you can find the latest 
ESG updates and sign up for our sustainability newsletter. 
QR readers are available from your phone’s app store.
 
Aligned with our Chevron Way value to protect people and the environment, we have printed this report on Forest Stewardship Council-certified
 
Mohawk Options 100, made from 100 percent post-consumer waste. It is processed elemental chlorine-free and produced using wind energy.
 
100 percent of the electricity used to manufacture Mohawk Options is matched with Green-e certified wind energy.
 
Mohawk Options is certified by the Rainforest Alliance for FS standards. RA-COC-000668.
 
Printed by Lithographix, Inc., whose rooftop solar panels are expected to offset the company’s energy demands by 30 percent.
 
Chevron Corporation 
6001 Bollinger Canyon Road, San Ramon, CA 94583-2324 USA 
www.chevron.com 
© 2020 Chevron Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 913-0386Q (5-20) (1.5M) Green-e.org