Science.  
Humanity.   
Purpose.  2020 PERFORMANCE REPORT	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 1
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Boston Scientific is  
dedicated to transforming 
lives through innovative 
medical solutions that  
improve the health of  
patients around the world.
When science, humanity  
and purpose connect,  
lives can be transformed.
 
Advancing science  
for lifePURPOSE
A deep caring for  
human lifeHUMANITY
Pushing the boundaries 
of what’s possibleSCIENCE	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 2
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
At Boston Scientific, our 2020 story unfolded through  
the experiences of health care professionals, patients, our 
employees and communities during a global pandemic.  
As we saw humanity tested, our people stepped up in  
unforeseen ways to work safely as they served customers  
and navigated the complexities of delivering critical  
solutions to patients everywhere. In a year of reckoning,  
we were compelled to act — inside and outside the  
company — as we came face to face with deep social  unrest, inequities and health disparities. Our people  
cared for one another and our communities in ways never  
imagined as they stayed true to our values and focused  
on addressing the needs of patients.
Pamela Chang is one of those patients. Her experience 
exemplifies why we are dedicated to advancing science  
for life and why — when science, humanity and purpose 
come together — we can change and save lives.
“ We’re focused on delivering meaningful innovations and making  
sure everyone who needs quality care gets it. That objective became 
very real for my family in 2020. The hard work of people across  
Boston Scientific saved my mom’s life.”
  Camille Chang Gilmore , global chief diversity, equity and inclusion officer, Boston Scientific, 
and Pamela’s daughter 
” I feel much better. I don’t know if I could 
run a marathon, but I could try!”  
    Pamela Chang , Boston Scientific patient, and  
Camille’s momPamela Chang is a survivor. The 73-year-old has a long, complex history of heart disease,  
but to her family, she is a pillar of strength. After immigrating to the United States from  
Jamaica, she worked as a nurse for 40 years and took on multiple shifts to ensure her children,  
including our Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer Camille Chang Gilmore, could  
go to college. Over the years, Pamela has been treated with several coronary therapies from 
Boston Scientific. But recently, after experiencing painful swelling in her right leg, physicians  
discovered blockages there. Pamela underwent a peripheral vascular procedure, in which 
doctors used Boston Scientific technology to open the blood vessels in her lower leg and foot. 
Now, once again, Pamela is back enjoying a full life with her family. Watch Pamela’s story  
 	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 3
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Table of Contents
This report has been prepared in accordance with  
the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. Unless  
otherwise indicated, data in the 2020 Performance  
Report Addendum are as of December 31, 2020, or  
for the one-year period ending in December 31, 2020,  
as applicable.1 OUR MISSION
2 PATIENT SPOTLIGHT: PAMELA CHANG
4 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO 
7 COMPANY PROFILE
 7 Boston Scientific at a Glance
 8 Meaningful Innovation
 9 Boston Scientific by the Numbers
 10 Corporate Social Responsibility at Boston Scientific
11 TRANSFORMING CARE
 12 Our Approach to Innovative and Quality Products
 17 Building Digital Capability
 19 Collaborating with Customers
23 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE  
 24 Talent and Company Culture
 27 Fostering a Diverse, Equitable and Inclusive Culture
 32 Benefits to Fit People’s Lives
 34 Prioritizing Employee Health and Safety35 ADVANCING POSSIBILITIES
 36 Confronting Health Inequities
 38  Playing Our Part: Combating Racism
 39 Supporting Our Communities
46 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT
 47 Responding to Climate Change
 50 Our Environmental Impact
55 CREATING VALUE RESPONSIBLY
 56 Compliance, Ethics and Integrity
 58 Risk Management and Global Security
 60 Governance
 62 Sustainable Supply Chain	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 4
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Mike Mahoney,  
Chairman, President   
and CEO
2020 has been a year unlike any we could have imagined. As a society, we confronted 
COVID-19 and its economic fallout. We watched the pandemic take a disproportionate  
toll on communities of color, and we saw long-standing inequities and systemic racism  
painfully exposed. We experienced political unrest as well as the continued devastating  
effects of climate change. Amid this disruption, Boston Scientific was guided and united  
by our mission to transform lives through medical solutions that improve the health  
of patients around the world. Our 38,000 employees were led by our values, and we  
fulfilled our mission — as a global business and as a global corporate citizen. A Message from Our 
Chairman, President 
and CEO
2020 taught us that when science, humanity and purpose 
connect, we can make a meaningful difference in the 
world. We measure our progress by the ways in which we 
transform care, invest in our people, advance possibilities, 
protect the environment and create value responsibly.  
In a year without precedent our teams were resilient and 
agile, and as a result of their hard work our business remains 
strong. We invested more than $1 billion in research and 
development and brought to market 69 new products to 
advance patient care. Our teams conducted 119 clinical 
studies and pursued opportunities to expand access to 
health care in emerging markets. We increased our digital 
investments in customer and patient engagement, medical 
education, and remote support for clinical trials. Most  
important, we touched the lives of nearly 30 million  
patients, took care of one another and supported  
communities in need. Responding to COVID-19
Boston Scientific mobilized quickly to protect 
our employees and support global COVID-19  
relief efforts. We helped communities by  
contributing more than $18 million in aid
through monetary and supply donations and by  
volunteering and providing expertise and resources  
in engineering and manufacturing. Here are some  
noteworthy examples of what we accomplished: 
   Assembled more than one million face shields  
and donated them to health care providers. 
   Worked with the University of Minnesota Bakken  
Medical Devices Center and others in the industry  
to create the Coventor , an emergency resuscitator  
that can be used when traditional ventilators are  
not available. 
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 5
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly   Collaborated with an international coalition of medical 
experts, clinicians and industry leaders to design and 
develop the Pneumask ™ Face Shield, a reusable  
full-face mask that was authorized by the Food  
and Drug Administration (FDA) for use as personal  
protective equipment in clinical settings. 
   Tapped our supply chain capabilities to help source  
and produce parts for commercial ventilators and to 
enable increased global production of transportable 
ventilators.
We did all this while making significant changes to  
our global workforce operations to keep employees,  
customers and patients safe. Our employees rose to  
every challenge, and we added resources  to support  
their physical, mental and financial health during this 
uncertain time.Building a More Diverse, Equitable  
and Inclusive Workplace and Society
The challenges of COVID-19 and the racial  
injustice and social unrest we experienced  
in 2020 underscore how important it is that  
we address the root causes of racism and 
build a more equitable, inclusive society — within Boston 
Scientific and our communities. In 2020, we made  
progress against our goals and took the following  
actions to support diversity, equity and inclusion: 
   Expanded on our 2017 diversity and inclusion goals  
with 3Up by 2023 , an initiative to increase representation 
of multicultural talent and women at the supervisory  
and managerial levels to 23 percent and 43 percent, 
respectively.
   Achieved 99+ percent pay equity for gender globally  
and 99+ percent pay equity for multicultural talent in  
the United States, including Puerto Rico.   Announced a $3.5 million multiyear investment to  
combat racism in the United States, with a focus on  
advocacy in five areas: community, economic  
empowerment, education, health care disparities  
and government policy.
   Through Close the Gap , launched a public service  
advertising campaign to increase awareness of health 
disparities and promote resources to help health care 
providers address them. 
   Supported diverse representation among health care  
professionals through scholarships for Black graduate-  
level healthcare students.
   Funded primary and secondary school grants to  
encourage the next generation to achieve in science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM).
Our work is guided by core values; they define the culture at Boston Scientific and empower our employees
CARING 
We act with integrity 
and compassion to  
support patients,  
customers, our  
communities and  
each other. GLOBAL  
COLLABORATION
We work collaboratively 
to pursue global  
opportunities that 
extend the reach of  
our medical solutions.MEANINGFUL  
INNOVATION 
We foster the creativity 
to transform new ideas 
into breakthrough  
services and solutions 
that create value for  
patients, customers  
and employees.DIVERSITY 
We embrace  
diversity and value 
unique talents, ideas 
and experiences of  
our employees.HIGH  
PERFORMANCE 
We strive for high  
performance to benefit 
our patients, clinicians 
and shareholders.WINNING  
SPIRIT
We adapt to  
change and act with 
speed, agility and  
accountability to  
further improve  
patient care.	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 6
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyWorking Together to Create a Better,  
More Equitable Future
I am grateful for the passion and commitment 
of our global team and proud of the progress 
we have made. There is much work to be done, 
but I continue to be optimistic about the future
of our world and the future of Boston Scientific. We have  
a strong pipeline and an extraordinarily talented and  
caring team that is committed to achieving our mission  
by sustaining ethical and inclusive business practices.  
I look forward to continuing our work together to meet  
the challenges ahead and to build a better and more  
equitable future for all.
Sincerely,
Mike Mahoney  
Chairman, President and CEO
April 15, 2021Adopting Environmentally Sustainable  
Business Practices
Fulfilling our mission comes with a  
responsibility to protect our planet. That’s  
why we have set aggressive environmental 
goals and consistently achieve reductions 
in energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, waste and  
water use. 
In 2017, we committed to achieving carbon neutrality —  
net zero carbon emissions — across our manufacturing  
and key distribution sites by 2030. To date, we’ve reduced 
our carbon footprint by 50 percent. Our manufacturing  
sites in Heredia and Coyol, Costa Rica use hydroelectric, 
wind and solar power and have been carbon-neutral since 
2016. Our facilities in Clonmel, Cork and Galway, Ireland, as 
well as Kerkrade, the Netherlands source only 100 percent 
renewable energy. By 2024, we expect to source or  
generate 100 percent of our electricity from renewable 
energy sources. Although Boston Scientific is already a  
low-intensity water user, we’ve reduced water usage by  
23 percent over the last decade. And in 2020 we diverted 
94 percent of landfill solid waste through recycling,  
plastic segregation, redesigning packaging and other  
environmentally responsible measures. 
“ 2020 taught us that when science,  
humanity and purpose connect, we can 
make a meaningful difference in the  
world. We measure our progress by the  
ways in which we transform care, invest  
in our people, advance possibilities,  
protect the environment and create  
value responsibly.”
transform
invest
protectcreateadvance	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 7
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyPERIPHERAL  
INTERVENTIONS
$1,577 million
Devices for  
diagnosis and  
minimally invasive 
treatments of  
peripheral  
vascular disease  
and cancerELECTROPHYSIOLOGY
$287 million
A broad range  
of mapping  
and treatment  
technologies for  
diagnosing and  
treating heart  
rhythm disordersENDOSCOPY  
$1,780 million
Minimally  
invasive devices  
for diagnosing  
and treating  
gastrointestinal  
and pulmonary  
conditionsCARDIAC RHYTHM  
MANAGEMENT 
$1,704 million
Technologies  
that treat irregular 
heart rhythms and 
heart failure and  
help protect  
against sudden  
cardiac death  INTERVENTIONAL  
CARDIOLOGY 
$2,299 million
Minimally invasive  
innovations that  
help improve the  
lives of patients  
living with heart  
and vascular  
conditionsNEUROMODULATION
$761 million
Electronic  
implantable  
technologies that  
help patients manage 
debilitating chronic 
pain and neurological  
conditionsCARDIOVASCULAR RHYTHM   +   NEURO
UROLOGY   +  
PELVIC HEALTH
$1,286 million
Solutions for  
urological diseases  
including stone  
disease, men’s  
health and  
women’s healthMEDSURG
Boston Scientific transforms lives through innovative medical solutions that improve the health  
of patients around the world. As a global medical technology leader for more than 40 years, we  
advance science for life by providing a broad range of high-performance solutions that address  
unmet patient needs and reduce the cost of health care. Boston Scientific  
at a Glance
NET SALES BY PRODUCT CATEGOR Y2 (dollars in millions)
NET SALES BY REGION (dollars in millions)
$9,913 1	We	have	three	reportable	segments	comprised	of	Medical	Surgical	(MedSurg), 	Rhythm	and	Neuro, 	and	Cardiovascular, 	which	represent	an	
aggregation	of	our	operating	segments	that	generate	revenues	from	the	sale	of	medical	devices	(Medical	Devices). 	We	have	included	the	results	
of	BTG’s	Interventional	Medicine	business	in	our	Peripheral	Interventions	operating	segment	since	the	date	of	acquisition. 		  2 As	part	of	our	
acquisition	of	BTG, 	we	acquired	a	specialty	pharmaceuticals	business	(Specialty	Pharmaceuticals), 	a	stand-alone	operating	segment	presented	
alongside	our	Medical	Device	reportable	segments. 	On	March	1, 	2021,	we	completed	the	sale	of	the	Specialty	Pharmaceuticals	business	to	Stark	
International	Lux	S.A.R.L. 	and	SERB	SAS, 	affiliates	of	SERB, 	for	a	purchase	price	of	$800	million. 	  U.S.   $5,508 
  EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa)  2,097  
  APAC (Asia-Pacific)  1,781  
  LACA (Latin America and Canada)  307  
Medical Devices1  9,694 
Specialty Pharmaceuticals2 219 
Net Sales   $9,913	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 8
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Meaningful  
InnovationBoston Scientific collaborates with health care professionals to develop meaningful  
innovations that help more people live longer, healthier lives. We invest in bringing new 
products to large, high-growth markets while building our unique pipeline of technologies 
to expand our category leadership and address unmet patient needs. Our innovative  
culture has enabled us to serve approximately 30 million patients annually.
KEY PRODUCTS
 WATCHMAN FLX™ Left Atrial Appendage Closure Device
 ACURATE neo2 ™ Aortic Valve System
  ROTAPRO™ Rotational Atherectomy System
  ELUVIA ™ Drug-Eluting Vascular Stent System and  
Ranger™ Drug Coated Balloon
 TheraSphere ™ Y-90 Glass Microspheres
 AngioJet™ Peripheral Thrombectomy System
 EkoSonic™ Endovascular System
 HeartLogic™ Heart Failure Diagnostic
  LUX-Dx™ Insertable Cardiac Monitor System
 POLARx™ Cryoablation System  
  WaveWriter Alpha™ Spinal Cord Stimulation System
  Vertiflex™ Procedure, Superion™ Indirect  
Decompression System
 Vercise Genus ™ Deep Brain Stimulation System
  EXALT™ Model D Single-use Duodenoscope, 
  SpyGlass™ Discover Digital Catheter
  A X I O S ™ Stent and Electrocautery-Enhanced Delivery System
  O R I S E ™ Gel Submucosal Lifting Agent and ORISE ™  
ProKnife Electrosurgical Knife
  LithoVue™ Single-Use Digital Flexible Ureteroscope
 SpaceOAR ™ Hydrogel Prostate Spacer  
 SpaceOAR Vue ™ Hydrogel Radiopaque Perirectal Spacer
 Rezūm ™ Water Vapor Therapy BUSINESS SEGMENTS BUSINESS UNITS
Cardiovascular Interventional Cardiology
  
 
 
 Peripheral Interventions
 
 
 
 
Rhythm and Neuro Rhythm Management  
 (CRM and EP)
 
 
 Neuromodulation
 
 
 
MedSurg Endoscopy
 
 
 
  
 Urology and Pelvic HealthHEART SOUNDS THORACIC IMPEDANCE RESPIRATION HEART RATE ACTIVITY COMPOSITE INDEX
% LV PACED AT/AF BURDEN WEIGHT SLEEP INCLINE V THERAPYBLOOD PRESSUREHEART RATE VARIABILITY 
(SDANN)RV RATE 
DURING AT/AF	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 9
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
100%  
renewable electricity  
by 2024
Carbon  
neutrality  
in manufacturing  
and key distribution 
sites by 2030
ADVANCING POSSIBILITIES
+$70 million  
medical research,  
fellowships, educational 
and charitable giving
+$18 million  
COVID-19 relief
15 years  
closing the health  
disparity gap
United by our core values, we are dedicated to transforming lives through innovative 
medical solutions, while also making measurable contributions to the world we share. 
Here are some highlights.  Boston Scientific  
by the Numbers
 +$1 billion  
invested in R&D
~30 million  
patients servedNewsweek  
America’s Most  
Responsible  
Companies
Member of  
Dow Jones  
Sustainability Indices  
Powered by the S&P Global CSA 
Forbes  
America’s Most  
JUST  Companies
Culture  
Champion 2020  
MIT Sloan Management 
Review/Glassdoor TRANSFORMING CARE PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT CREATING VALUE RESPONSIBLY
+99%  
pay equity
Top 10%  
globally recognized  
leader for workplace 
inclusionINVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 10
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS AND MATERIAL TOPICS
At Boston Scientific, corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
underpins all our business practices, and our approach is 
aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). 
CSR Strategy and Practices
Our CSR strategy, material topics and practices are  
informed by conversations with diverse stakeholders  
inside and outside the company — locally, nationally  
and globally. In our collaborations and other business  
relationships, we work with organizations that share  
our commitment to better understand and improve  
environmental, social and economic progress.
In more than 100 countries, our people work with an 
awareness of the world’s most pressing challenges,  
including inequity, economic disparity, climate change and 
environmental protection. Their efforts are supported by: 
  Our cross-functional CSR Council.
  Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) policies. 
  Global Council for Inclusion.
   Local, regional and national employee and community 
programs. Corporate Social  
Responsibility  
at Boston Scientific
The CSR Council includes subject matter experts from 
throughout the company who help define our CSR strategy 
and ensure accountability. An executive steering committee 
oversees the Council and champions sustainable practices 
across the business. Within this framework, everyone in the  
company contributes to our social responsibility. Each year, we participate in several widely recognized  
environmental-, social- and governance-rating surveys. In 
2020, we initiated a climate risk scenario analysis based 
on the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
framework. TRANSFORMING CARE
Material topics:
 Innovative products
INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE
Material topics:
 Career, culture and talent  
 Diversity, equity and inclusion  
 Worker health and safety
ADVANCING POSSIBILITIES
Material topics:
 Community engagement
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT
Material topics:
 Environmental impact  
 Climate change  
CREATING VALUE RESPONSIBLY
Material topics:
 Governance
 Compliance and ethics
 Sustainable supply chain	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 11
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Transforming  
carePURPOSE
Advancing standards  
of careHUMANITY
Pursuing breakthrough 
ideasSCIENCE
Transforming  
Care
Our commitment to improving the  
lives of patients requires high levels 
of research, quality and innovation in 
every aspect of our operations. 
Boston Scientific teams collaborate across the  
company and with health care providers and other 
trusted external experts to design and make solutions 
for the health care challenges that matter the most. 
We are inspired by the people who have been  
helped by our products, and we are driven to serve 
those who need breakthroughs that have not yet 
been invented. 	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 12
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Our Approach to  
Innovative and Quality 
Products 
Boston Scientific product development teams follow  
a uniform, global approach that combines business,  
technical and quality processes. This allows us to  
monitor products over their life cycles, from concept  
and commercialization through next-generation designs. 
The data we gather and analyze helps us pursue new  
solutions that advance standards of care and address  
unmet customer and patient needs.
We have research and development sites in the  
United States, the European Union, Costa Rica, India  
and China. Some of the sites also serve as R&D Centers  
of Excellence where we identify successful practices  
and share them across the company to strengthen  
our overall R&D capability.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS:
Katie Crawford helps lead global processes that ensure 
quality and safety are incorporated into everything we do.
“ The global reach of our quality system is 
critical. Boston Scientific employees  
everywhere know they share responsibility 
for the quality and safety of our products. 
Each site has a comprehensive system for 
maintaining quality, which gives us agility 
in meeting new requirements such as the 
European Union Medical Device Regulation.”         
  Katie Crawford,  manager, Quality SystemsQuality and Safety
Our commitment to meaningful innovation is  
matched by a customer- and patient-centric focus  
on quality and safety. The work and expertise of  
Boston Scientific global quality and safety teams  
is supported by:
  Quality system training  for all employees. 
   A companywide plan  that prioritizes quality  
improvement projects and leads to higher  
quality products and better patient outcomes.   A global quality system  that integrates customer  
feedback and regulatory requirements into our  
processes.
   The Boston Scientific Best4 quality strategy  for  
delivering industry-leading culture, compliance,  
performance and agility.
Innovation Leadership
Our success in pursuing and developing 
life-changing innovations is recognized by 
leading institutions, as summarized on our 
website awards page . GLOBAL QUALITY SYSTEM:           DEVELOPING INNOVATIVE AND SAFE PRODUCTS 	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 13
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
 4Best culture: Together we sustain a culture that makes 
the quality policy real for every employee. Our diverse 
quality team reinforces the importance of each role in 
improving patient lives.
Best agility: We add value by reducing complexity, 
removing obstacles and adapting to changing business 
needs. This means having intentional simplicity in  
our systems as well as lean practices and the right  
technology for process efficiency.
   Best performance: We provide the best products,  
services and solutions for patients and customers,  
using a quality by design approach that emphasizes 
continuous improvement. 
   Best compliance: We comply with global laws and 
regulations using one global quality system. This work 
includes ongoing risk mitigation and an effective  
transition to the European Union Medical Device  
Regulation (EU MDR).BEST4 STRATEGY
To ensure the safety and efficacy of our new technologies 
and tools, we follow a global design controls process that 
incorporates risk management and usability engineering. 
At every stage of development, our teams focus on the 
patients who will benefit from their efforts. This includes 
assessing component and device materials for quality  
and durability, availability, safety and efficacy. Our teams 
also take into consideration medical and environmental 
requirements and other regulations.
Strategic Quality Process (SQP) 
Boston Scientific manufacturing processes reinforce  
our quality policy and our overarching SQP, which is  
updated yearly and encompasses: 
 Operations strategy: How we establish our strategic  
goals and plans.
 Management systems: How we prioritize and execute  
our work.
 Continuous improvement: How we improve our work.
Cascading metrics: How we measure and connect  
performance.
 Recognition and engagement: How we recognize  
teams and individuals.
To ensure cohesive quality throughout the enterprise,  
every one of our manufacturing sites uses the overarching 
SQP to develop its own SQP to support the facility’s focus 
and performance objectives. 
A SHARED RESPONSIBILITY FOR QUALITY AND SAFETY 
All Boston Scientific employees share  
responsibility for quality and safety in  
their work every day. This commitment  
is reinforced by:
   Completing a mandatory quality systems training 
course when hired.
   Completing an annual refresher training course.
   Signing and wearing a badge imprinted with the  
quality policy.	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 14
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Our Quality Policy is printed on  
employee badges and is highly 
visible in our facilities:
“ I improve the quality of 
patient care and all things 
Boston Scientific.”
Our Quality Policy is complemented 
by our Quality Mission:
“ We exceed expectations 
with customer-centric 
quality solutions that 
transform patient lives.”OUR QUALITY POLICY AND QUALITY MISSION
1 Quality system management
2 Documents, records and data control
3 Design controls
4  Product approvals
5 Material controls
6 Production and process controls
7 Post-market support
8 Corrective action, preventive actionGLOBAL QUALITY PROCESS: 8 PILLARS	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 15
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyMeasuring and Monitoring Quality  
and Compliance Effectiveness 
We conduct regular audits to verify that our global  
quality system meets internal and external requirements 
and that it is implemented and maintained effectively.  
We follow up with activities that include re-auditing  
prior observations and confirming that the requisite  
actions were taken. Regulatory agencies also review  
our performance to ensure quality and compliance.
In 2020, to adapt amid the pandemic, our global  
quality team acted quickly to shift from in-person to  
virtual audit processes. We partnered with vendors  
to pilot new technologies for remote auditing and  
obtained legal and privacy approvals for camera and  
recording activity. This approach meant we were able  
to secure key regulatory approvals safely and on time.Product Performance
Boston Scientific teams review customer and patient  
feedback and monitor experiences with our devices.  
This information is valuable for our quality system and  
for future product iterations and innovations. We follow  
a preventive action process to identify root causes for  
potential compliance and quality issues, and to develop 
preventive solutions. We initiate field actions as needed 
to ensure that any regulatory or field safety issues are 
resolved quickly and effectively.
“ Customer insights are a key resource as  
we work to improve our products and  
introduce new devices. That’s how new 
generations of products are born.”         
  Alejandra Hernandez , senior engineer, Quality Systems
Our annual Everyone Makes an Impact events take place  
at Boston Scientific sites around the world to celebrate  
patients who overcome health challenges and highlight 
how each and every employee is helping to advance  
patient care. In 2020, thousands of employees across  
the globe attended a virtual event, and several patients 
joined to talk about how their lives changed after being 
successfully treated with Boston Scientific solutions.ELEVATING QUALITY: EVERYONE MAKES AN IMPACT 
Valentina Arango of Bogota, 
Colombia discussed how 
doctors used the SpyGlass™  
DS Direct Visualization  
System  to treat potentially 
cancerous liver fibrosis,  
destroy stones in her  
intrahepatic duct and  
collect a biopsy.
Rahul Mathur, an employee 
in our Gurgaon, India office 
was successfully treated for 
a cardiac condition with a  
Promus ELITE™ stent. He 
talked about what it feels 
like to be helped by a 
device he knows was made 
with quality and care.
PRODUCT INNOVATION:           LISTENING TO OUR CUSTOMERS	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 16
Pre-Clinical Sciences
We conduct extensive research into the safety and efficacy 
of our devices before progressing to human clinical trials. 
This pre-clinical research sets stringent standards that 
govern our training practices, product testing and regulatory 
compliance. In 2020, we made significant investments  
in our Research and Technology Center in Minnesota,  
including the latest in advanced imaging technology to 
help ensure device compatibility — an investment that  
will enhance R&D initiatives across all our businesses.To meet the highest safety standards, on occasion we  
use animal testing in our R&D efforts. For instance, when 
we use new materials in medical devices, the U.S. Food  
and Drug Administration (FDA) may require evidence  
of animal testing prior to human clinical trials. Boston  
Scientific is committed to the humane care and treatment 
of laboratory animals. Whenever it is feasible, appropriate 
and scientifically valid, we use alternative testing. Our  
facilities meet applicable laws and regulatory standards, 
often exceeding the latter. We are routinely audited by 
internal experts and government agencies, including  
by the FDA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and  
the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of  
Laboratory Animal Care.
Clinical Trials 
Our clinical trials are scientifically rigorous and generate  
the data we need to document that Boston Scientific  
products are safe and effective. We disclose the outcome  
of all primary and pre-specified secondary endpoints  
in trials we sponsor, regardless of whether the results  
are positive, negative or inconclusive. Our clinical teams  
adhere to criteria established by the International  
Committee of Medical Journal Editors for authorship  
on clinical trial publications. In publications pertaining  
to research that has been supported by Boston Scientific, 
our teams disclose the company’s involvement, whether  
as a sponsor or supporter. 
In 2020, we strengthened and refined our operating  
procedures to ensure we meet or exceed EU MDR  
requirements by the required deadlines.
 119 active trials  
 in 2020
 
 6,655 patients  
 enrolled globallyOur	Mission  Patient	Spotlight	 Table	of	Contents	 A	Message	to	 Company	Profile	 Transforming	Care	 Investing	in		 Advancing	 Protecting	the	 Creating	Value	  
	 	 	 Stakeholders		 	 	 Our	People	 Possibilities	 Environment	 Responsibly	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 17
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyBuilding Digital  
Capability
Our recent investments in digital platforms gave us  
capabilities that were critical for providing remote  
customer support in 2020. Highlights include: 
   Aided practitioners remotely using our augmented  
reality platform  to offer expert guidance on product  
use and assist with setup and troubleshooting for  
devices and procedures.
   Partnered with a wearable technology company to  
pilot a smart glasses device that enables 225 customers 
in Latin America to receive real-time remote guidance 
from Boston Scientific clinical specialists — assistance  
that helped nearly 1,200 patients.
   Developed and launched provider tools and resources   
for re-engaging with patients in the wake of the  
pandemic.
   Offered on-demand webinars  and telehealth resources 
for providers on COVID-19-related legislation, regulations 
and protocols.
   Used our Heart Connect ™ system to conduct over  
13,000 remote follow-up device checks with customers. The company’s digital capabilities also allowed many 
employees to work remotely during the pandemic. We 
established new operating procedures and launched  
online tools so our employees could collaborate virtually 
with colleagues inside and outside the company.  
We are working closely with the FDA on their 
new Digital Health Software Precertification 
Pilot Program . The goal of the program is to
offer precertified companies a streamlined premarket 
review that will ultimately result in faster patient access 
to safe and effective software-based medical innovations.ACCELERATING DIGITAL SOLUTIONS
Our augmented 
reality platform  
connects customers  
to expert live  
support.	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 18
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Innovation in a Virtual World
Throughout 2020, we remained steadfast in our  
commitment to transform lives. Using virtual platforms,  
we continued internal innovation initiatives such as:
   Recognize Success , a program that celebrates  
contributions by teams that have innovated to  
improve quality, efficiency and agility at Boston  
Scientific. 
   Recognize Development Excellence , an initiative  
that honors cross-functional teams that develop  
meaningful innovations for customers, patients  
and our company.    ImagineIF , an internal venture capital-style  
approach to funding breakthrough employee  
ideas which could have a positive impact on  
any aspect of our company.
In addition, Boston Scientific launched the COVIDea  
portal in March to collect employee ideas on how  
to help slow the spread of the coronavirus and  
support relief efforts. We received more than 100  
submissions and pursued several proposals to  
develop and donate personal protective equipment  
and medical equipment, many of which are featured  
in this report.
SUPPORTING DIGITAL INNOVATION:  
THE CONNECTED PATIENT CHALLENGE
Digital health solutions that improve patient and  
caregiver quality of life at home was the theme of  
the fifth annual Boston Scientific Connected Patient 
Challenge . The external competition, co-sponsored  
by Massachusetts Life Sciences Center and others,  
promotes the development of digital innovation to  
address complex health care challenges. In early 2020, 
six finalists participated in a live pitch event with life  
science professionals and industry experts. The  
winning submission was the VaGenie , a connected  
pelvic floor muscle training device that can help  
prevent issues related to having a weak pelvic floor,  
including incontinence and lower back pain.In October, Boston  
Scientific hosted our 
annual Recognize  
Success event, where  
we celebrated cross-  
functional teams that  
are making outstanding 
contributions to improve 
quality, patient care  
and operational  
effectiveness.
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 19
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyCollaborating with  
Customers 
Boston Scientific is deeply committed to helping  
health care providers meet patient needs. We gather  
customer feedback in several ways to inspire future  
product iterations and develop solutions collaboratively.  
For example, our anatomical model lab in Minnesota  
enables engineers and physicians to evaluate new  
product concepts on-site or remotely using new  
collaboration and visualization tools. 
Through the Motion Medical joint innovation accelerator  
with the Mayo Clinic, we made progress developing 
minimally invasive treatments for conditions that impede 
quality and longevity of life. In 2020, we refined two  
prototype devices, one for patients with cancer and  
another for patients with structural heart disease. In  
2021, these projects are proceeding to final verification, 
validation and preclinical testing.To support demand for ventilators and personal protective equipment (PPE), we teamed up with customers and health 
care industry peers to develop and distribute innovative solutions to address critical medical needs in our communities.
Nearly 3,000  Coventor  
resuscitators were delivered to 
health care providers
INNOVATING WITH URGENCY DURING THE PANDEMIC
Ventilator Alternatives. We collaborated with the  
University of Minnesota Bakken Medical Device Center 
and industry partners to bring the Coventor  resuscitator 
to market, with less than 60 days from concept meeting 
to production completion. The machine pumps a  
resuscitation bag at regular intervals, replacing the  
need for manual respiration in emergency settings.  
After receiving FDA Emergency Use Authorization in 
April 2020, our partnership delivered nearly 3,000  
Coventor resuscitators to health care providers.   PPE.  Working with Stanford University and an international  
coalition of medical experts, clinicians and industry leaders,  
we developed the Pneumask ™ Face Shield in 38 days  
and received FDA Emergency Use Authorization shortly 
thereafter. The device combines a full-face mask and a 
Boston Scientific custom-molded adapter that attaches  
to a medical-grade air filter. We donated over 1,500  
Pneumask Face Shields to hospitals across the United 
States and have given other manufacturers access to 
design details for future production.
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 20
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyINNOVATION COLLABORATION
Boston Scientific collaborates with a variety of 
academic institutions, research organizations 
and accelerators around the globe to  
promote innovations in health care, including:
gBETA  Medtech , a free Minnesota-based accelerator 
that helps early-stage health care startups.
MEDX Xelerator , a medical device and digital health 
incubator, based in Israel, that’s focused on innovations 
across multiple disease states.
PracticePoint , a membership-based health care R&D 
facility operating at Worcester Polytechnic Institute in 
Massachusetts.
BioInnovate , a program at the National University of 
Ireland Galway that fosters medical device innovation 
using a needs based approach from Stanford University 
Biodesign.
Avicenna Alliance , an industry and academic  
collaboration to promote an EU framework embracing 
in-silico methods, computer modeling and simulation.
HuaXi-Boston Scientific Joint Innovation Center ,  
a collaboration with Huaxi Hospital in Chengdu, China 
launched in September 2020 to bring innovative  
solutions to patients via remote education.
Medical Device Innovation Consortium , a public-  
private partnership with the FDA to advance solutions 
that promote patient access to innovative medical 
technologies.
Boston Scientific R&D employees testing new components for the ROTAPRO™ Rotational Atherectomy System in the 
anatomical model lab.Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyGlobal Customer Care
In 2020, our global customer care team expanded its 
framework and capabilities to improve customer support. 
These enhancements enabled us to shift more resources  
to manage customer relationships, anticipate product 
needs and advise on solutions. 
   We introduced Salesforce.com Service Cloud in 16  
countries to better serve customers and increase  
online collaboration. 
   In the EU, we invested in technology to increase  
automated ordering to more than 80 percent of  
volume, allowing employees to spend less time  
handling orders and more time talking with  
customers about their needs. 
   Using robotic process automation shipping, we  
reduced cycle time for sales and sales support  
agents and improved field inventory levels.
PERSPECTIVES ON ADVANCING CUSTOMER CARE:           HANS WILLEMS
More than 750  dedicated  
Customer Care team members 
across 40  unique sites“ Technology solutions represent a huge 
opportunity for our customers to provide 
better care to patients. Our teams are 
focused on what’s going to help providers 
and patients the most.”     
  Hans Willems , vice president, Global Customer Care  
and EMEA Supply Chain
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 21	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 22
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyValue-Based Health Care 
A global Boston Scientific team  is dedicated to studying 
health economics to demonstrate the value of our  
technologies and increase market access for providers  
and patients through policy and reimbursement advocacy. 
Chronic conditions among an aging population present 
challenges to health care access and affordability. A study 
in the Journal of the American Heart Association  showed 
significant cost savings when patients who are at risk for stroke due to atrial fibrillation undergo a one-time, 
minimally invasive procedure to implant the WATCHMAN™ 
Left Atrial Appendage Closure Device rather than receive 
lifelong anticoagulant treatment. 
We use a combination of science and technology to  
help identify patients who are likely to become sick or 
experience a sudden health event, giving providers  
more opportunities to take preventive action and  
keep patients healthier at more affordable costs.  The Boston Scientific HeartLogic™ Heart Failure Diagnostic  
technology is embedded within implantable defibrillators 
and uses multiple sensors to collect and analyze patient  
physiological data. The technology has been proven  
to predict heart failure events an average of 34 days  
before they happen , which enables proactive care and 
helps reduce patient hospitalizations and readmissions.
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 23
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Investing in  
Our People
At Boston Scientific, we are fortunate to 
have approximately 38,000 employees 
around the world whose constant focus 
is developing solutions that change  
and save lives. 
Their talent and collective passion define us as a 
company, and our performance as a business is  
built on their diversity of thought and experiences. 
Our business practices reflect our belief that  
innovation thrives when employees are highly  
engaged in their jobs and communities, and with  
one another. We invest in our people so they can 
solve problems and advance promising ideas,  
and we recognize and reward them for their  
contributions.  
Inspiring  
possibilityPURPOSE
Innovating through 
diversityHUMANITY
Discovering through 
collaborationSCIENCE	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 24
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
  In 2020, Stephanie Pittman, who has been with Boston 
Scientific for 10 years, took on the role of vice president of 
Global Talent Management and HR Planning in 2020. 
“ Our global workforce expects meaningful 
work with career advancement  
opportunities. We are enhancing our  
workforce planning strategy and  
development capabilities to meet those 
needs both now and in the future. This 
includes expanding virtual learning  
offerings, investing in digitally enabled 
analytics and increasing the ways we  
listen to gain insight and take action.” 
Stephanie Pittman , vice president, Global Talent  
Management and HR PlanningSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS:
meaningful innovation
high performancediversityglobal collaborationTalent and  
Company Culture
Our competitive edge comes from our employees’  
collective talent and shared sense of purpose. We  
foster a values-driven culture where engagement and 
inclusion thrive and diversity of thought, background  
and perspective elevate collaboration. This culture  
helps produce our greatest breakthroughs and is  
the foundation of our success. The core values  we  
demonstrate across the company are embedded in  
our talent management systems. 
winning spirit
caringOur Core ValuesTALENT MANAGEMENT INSIGHTS:           STEPHANIE PITTMAN	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 25
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyGlobal Strategic Talent  
Management and Planning
Our efforts to recruit, promote and retain diverse talent  
are focused on cultivating inclusive behaviors and building 
an organization that prioritizes continuous learning and  
the following:
   Talent management and planning: apply  
analytics and insights to hire and develop  
diverse, high-potential talent and facilitate  
their movement to new roles.
Manager development: improve managers’  
performance and career coaching capabilities,  
inclusive leadership behaviors and agility in 
adapting to change.
   Culture and engagement: measure the  
employee experience through data and  
ongoing dialogue and act on the results.
   Employee growth and development: provide  
development opportunities for all employees, 
as well as tailored programs for top leaders  
and key talent; this includes accelerating  
meaningful advancement opportunities for 
women and multicultural talent.
Our progress in talent management included the transition  
to what we have named, “Performance Development 
Coaching (PDC) 2.0,” an ongoing people development 
approach. Slated for companywide adoption in 2021, PDC 
2.0 enables employees to receive continuous coaching and 
to request performance feedback from supervisors and 
colleagues as projects are completed and evaluated.
 Recruit.
 Develop.
 Promote.
 Retain.
PIVOTING TO PDC 2.0
FROM:
   Formal review meetings twice a year
    Comprehensive feedback  limited to  
scheduled reviews
   Companywide  timing
   Structured  review eventsTO:
   Ongoing feedback  as needed
    Brief feedback  and coaching conversations relevant 
to current work 
   Supervisor or direct report  initiates discussions  
as needed
    Feedback and coaching intervals integrated  into  
regular work meetings, reinforcing ongoing  
development conversations	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 26
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Employee Growth and Development
Boston Scientific provides tools and training for continuous 
learning so every employee can envision greater possibilities 
for their career. 
    We offer more than 150 professional and technical 
courses , including on-the-job training, skills-based  
education and programs for employees who have  
the potential to hold leadership positions. 
    Responding to the realities of the pandemic, the  
company ramped up virtual training and  
development . People at all levels of the company  
now have access to more than 100 new and expanded 
webinars, online courses and on-demand training. 
564K hours  spent by non-manufacturing employees in
2020 virtual and classroom training  150+ professional and technical  
 courses  offered 
 
 100+ new and expanded  
 webinars, online courses and  
 on-demand training	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 27
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Multicultural (U.S. and Puerto Rico)
2017 201817.8%19.6%
201920.8%
202021.4%Fostering a Diverse,  
Equitable and  
Inclusive Culture
To promote equity and cultivate an enduring culture  
of inclusion, we must hold ourselves accountable as an  
organization. We have made steady progress , and at  
the beginning of 2020, we set our diversity, equity  
and inclusion goals even higher with three new bold  
measures to accelerate the representation of women  
and multicultural talent in our workforce. Based on our  
belief that the only acceptable trajectory for diverse  
representation is up, we call these goals “3Up by 2023.” Increase our goal of  
representation of  
women  at the  
supervisory and  
managerial level to  
at least 43 percent —  
an increase of  
3 percentage pointsIncrease our goal of  
 representation of  
multicultural talent  
at the supervisory  
and managerial level  
to at least 23 percent —  
an increase of  
3 percentage pointsTop 10%: Continue to 
be in the top 10 percent 
globally as a recognized 
leader for workplace 
inclusion3UP BY 2023
REPRESENTATION AT ALL LEVELS
SUPERVISORY AND MANAGERIAL LEVEL REPRESENTATIONDE&I EFFORTS ACROSS BOSTON 
SCIENTIFIC ALIGN WITH FOUR 
STRATEGIC PILLARS Multicultural (U.S. and Puerto Rico)
2017 201830.7%31.7%
201933.2%
202034.0%
Women (Global)
2017 201837.4%38.4%
201938.1%
202039.9%
2020Women (Global)
2017 201845.5%46.5%
201947.0%
202047.4%Greater representation and  
inclusivity  is about progress over 
time, not overnight. Learn more  
about why DE&I is a business  
imperative for Boston Scientific. 
 CAREER 
 
 CULTURE
 COMMERCE
 
 COMMUNITY	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 28
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
In 2020, four Boston Scientific 
employees were selected to 
participate in the CEO Action 
for Racial Equity , a fellowship 
that provides representatives of CEO Action for Diversity 
& Inclusion signatories an opportunity to advance racial 
equity through public policy. The fellowship is governed 
by the CEO Action for Racial Equity Governing Committee, 
a group of 20 CEOs who represent multiple industries 
and regions, including Boston Scientific Chairman and 
CEO Mike Mahoney, a founding signatory of CEO Action.
“  This fellowship aligns 
with my own values  
and enables me to  
take responsibility —  
as a white woman  
of privilege — in 
the journey to advance racial equity.”     
 Caroline Jacobsen , manager, Health EconomicsCEO ACTION FOR RACIAL EQUITY FELLOWSHIP 
Our ability to fulfill our mission  
will always depend on a team  
that includes a diversity of people, 
ideas and skills. The company took 
steps to accelerate DE&I progress   
in 2020 by expanding many of  
our programs to ensure individuals 
have equitable opportunities for 
growth. Unconscious bias training  
is mandatory for all employees,  
as is expanded diverse hiring  
practices. To help our organization 
be more deliberate in our approach 
to DE&I, we increased training  
for all leaders on topics such as 
microagressions, modeling inclusive 
behaviors, history of racism, allyship 
and moving from “color blind to 
color brave.”
CHAMPIONING DE&I	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 29
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Advancing Multicultural Talent
To address the need for more Black, Hispanic and Latinx  
employees at the manager and supervisor levels, we 
expanded our diverse hiring and training programs and 
increased our investment in ally and mentorship initiatives. 
We also designed new programs specifically for Black,  
Hispanic and Latinx employees who build our medical 
devices to prepare them for business roles. These  
programs are expected to launch in 2021.
Inclusion Resources
The DE&I dashboard we developed in 2019 proved to  
be a valuable analytics tool in 2020 as we took stock of  
where we can address shortcomings and make measurable 
improvements. Our leaders use DE&I analytics to better  
understand representation trends in their organizations 
and identify ways to improve hiring, promotion and  
attrition metrics.
Over the course of the year, we expanded our virtual  
inclusion resources.
   Inclusion toolkit. The online toolkit encourages  
employees to take the I Act On Pledge  and complete 
an assessment to determine their inclusion IQ. It offers 
on-demand DE&I tools as well as learning modules  
on topics such as unconscious bias training, modeling  
inclusive behaviors and anti-racism.
   Candid conversations. The Candid Conversations  
podcast is an interview series that builds on our  
inclusion training and Real Talk listening sessions.  
In 2020, we expanded opportunities for people at  
all levels of the organization to tell their stories  
and offer perspectives on handling issues such  
as parenting during the pandemic, racial injustice  
and mental health. 
As racial inequity and injustice  
dominated the dialogue in and  
outside the company, we took steps 
to engage in necessary, sometimes 
uncomfortable, conversations to 
break the silence about race and 
identity. Leaders and our HR and  
DE&I teams led more than 200  
hours of Real Talk listening sessions, 
engaging employees throughout  
the organization in dialogue on the 
root causes of racism. We covered 
topics such as what it’s like to be 
Black in corporate America, white 
privilege as well as disparities in  
the workplace and barriers to  
diversity.
Rob Morton (left), and his mentor 
Matt Lavelle, vice president,  
Operations (right) held one of  
the first Real Talk sessions. 
 Employees engaged in 200+ hours of “Real Talk” REAL TALK IN 2020
” Things like race have a negative stigma associated with 
being talked about at work. If sharing our conversation 
influences just one person then it was a success.”  
   Rob Morton , senior scientific communications specialist, Medical Affairs	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 30
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Learning from our Employee  
Resource Groups
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)  are vital collaborators  
in our DE&I strategy. ERGs are voluntary, company-sponsored 
groups of employees who champion opportunity for all in 
our work environment and provide feedback to executive 
leaders through the company’s Global Council for Inclusion. 
ERGs are typically formed around specific dimensions of 
diversity, for example, gender, race, veteran status, sexual 
orientation or life stage. All employees are welcome and 
encouraged to join any ERG.
In 2020, Boston Scientific leaders and employees  
participated in our first global ERG summit. We  
examined the impact that the pandemic has had on 
our employees, particularly through the lens of diversity, 
equity and inclusion. More than 850 members of the 
company gathered virtually for panels and breakout  
sessions to share perspectives on inclusion and  
belonging.GLOBAL ERG SUMMIT: INCLUSION AND BELONGING 
DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
6,000+ employees  
across nine ERGs 
110  chapters globally
42  chapters outside the U.S.
11  virtual chapters  Precious Morton  joined Boston Scientific in 2007 and 
founded the Spencer, Indiana chapter of Bridge, our ERG 
focused on developing a community of Black leaders. 
She is now a quality manager in Alpharetta, Georgia and 
the global lead of Bridge. To recognize her contributions 
to DE&I, the Boston Scientific Global Council for Inclusion  
honored Precious with a 2020 Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion Impact Award for her leadership and courage 
in bringing Black employees together to support one 
another and give voice to racism and injustice to drive 
meaningful change inside and outside the company.
“  Everyone should be heard and accepted 
for who they are. People need a sense of 
belonging and purpose. I affectionately 
call my Bridge colleagues The Fam,  
because they are my family. The ERGs at 
Boston Scientific give us a safe space in a 
not-so-safe world. We learn from one  
another, and we make a positive impact 
on the company and on our communities.”       
   Precious Morton , quality manager, PathologyERG PERSPECTIVE FROM BRIDGE:           DEVELOPING A COMMUNITY OF BLACK LEADERS	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 31
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
The COVID-19 pulse survey gauged whether employees felt supported during the pandemic and allowed us to quickly  
adapt companywide efforts as necessary. Distributed to a representative sampling of approximately 9,000 indirect  
labor * employees , and with an 80 percent participation rate , feedback showed that employees:
Trust   
senior leaders 
and believe  
they care about 
employee 
well-being.
 Value   
frequent,  
transparent 
COVID-19  
communications.Feel  they  
have access to  
helpful resources 
and information,  
although some  
had difficulty  
finding certain 
well-being  
resources.Appreciate  
the flexibility in 
where and when 
they work, although 
some expressed 
workload concerns.
COVID-19 PULSE SURVEY
PEOPLE LEADERSHIP SURVEY 2020: EMPLOYEES RATE MANAGERS ON LEADERSHIP BEHAVIORS 
*Those	with	one	or	more	direct	reports	responding		Each year, we offer  
employees an   
opportunity to rate their 
manager’s performance 
against a range of  
leadership behaviors.    More than 26,000  
employees  invited  
to give survey feedback  
on 4,800 people  
leaders .   77% employee  
response rate .    95% of participating 
managers * received a 
personalized feedback 
report.* Indirect	labor	includes	employees	who	are	
not	directly	involved	in	the	manufacturing	
of	products.
Listening to Our People
Our people have a prominent voice in how we  
conduct business and the actions we take as a  
global citizen. To support this work, we invested in  
an on-demand, pulse survey tool that allows us to 
gather feedback on timely topics that can quickly  
be turned into action. 	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 32
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Benefits to Fit  
People’s Lives
Employee benefits at Boston Scientific reflect our belief 
that well-being, financial health and security are essential 
for a productive and collaborative workforce. We strive to 
offer benefits that are valued by our employees, promote 
well-being and support life-work integration. Our Global 
Benefits to Fit Your Life  program provides employees  
with a broad range of offerings to support and improve 
their lives. 
Compensation
At Boston Scientific, we pay for performance. Where  
it is relevant to an employee’s responsibilities and in  
compliance with applicable law, we offer both a base  
salary and variable compensation. Our variable pay  
components include annual bonus programs, long-term 
incentive stock awards, and one-time performance and 
recognition rewards for highly successful projects and 
breakthrough performance.
Equal Pay for Equal Work: Pay Equity
We pay people equally for equal work . Our compensation 
experts regularly benchmark salaries and conduct  
companywide and external parity audits. We contract  
with an independent third party to assess pay equity  
across all positions using regression analysis. This  
data-driven approach controls for variables that  
influence compensation such as job position, tenure,  
years of experience and location. We use the results  to identify any potential pay disparities, and we address  
these accordingly. In our last assessment, conducted  
in 2019, we continued to see 99+ percent pay equity  
for gender globally and 99+ percent pay equity for  
multicultural talent in the United States, including  
Puerto Rico. Our compensation team will conduct  
another third-party global pay assessment in 2021.
99%+ 
pay 
equity            
Employer of Choice Awards 
Boston Scientific is committed to be an  
employer of choice for globally diverse  
talent. We participate in external  
benchmarking surveys that candidly 
assess our progress and ensure we are doing all we  
can to achieve our goals. Visit our awards page  to  
learn more about the recognition we received in 2020.	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 33
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
  As employees adjusted to life and work during the  
pandemic, we moved quickly to help them and their  
families by shortening meeting times, holding managers  
accountable for supporting their teams with flexible 
hours, and regularly communicating available resources.
  Through employee surveys and listening session s with 
working parents and other caregivers, we continued to 
assess how best to support our workforce. As a result, 
we added new benefits  and expanded other offerings:  
   expanded no-cost, virtual offerings for general  
medicine and mental health support.
   doubled the time available under our Personal  
Leave of Absence policy, and made it available to  
use in half- or full-day increments.
   increased child and adult care-giving benefits,  
including adding more caregiver resources and  
offering home schooling support such as virtual  
tutoring, learning pods and return-to-school guides. 
  modified our financial benefits for people facing  
economic hardship.
   launched an internal well-being website and well-  
being circles to provide employees opportunities to 
connect over shared interests and circumstances.A BOOST IN PANDEMIC BENEFITS
 Covered COVID-19 testing .
 Doubled backup child care and elder care  days.
 Upheld flex work hours  and U.S. Flex Fridays.
 Revised policies  to support workplace flexibility.
 Expanded personal leave . 
 Enhanced global employee assistance programs . 
 Expanded counseling  benefit.
  Introduced well-being  tools and resources,  
including podcasts, webinars and interaction  
opportunities.
 Launched virtual well-being circles .
 Expanded telehealth  options.
 Expanded 24/7 emotional support .COVID-19: BENEFITS EXPANSION AND UPDATES	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 34
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyWORKPLACE STRATEGY:           NOEL FINNERTY
“ The dual challenges  
of climate change  
and a global pandemic  
have made designing 
safe, sustainable and
efficient workplaces even more important 
for companies and their employees.”     
Noel Finnerty , director, Global Real Estate and  
Facilities
Prioritizing Employee 
Health and Safety
Boston Scientific takes a global approach to prioritizing, 
delivering and monitoring employee safety at all our offices 
and facilities. We set health and safety goals called Total 
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) targets for every Boston 
Scientific operations site. Our global Employee Health and 
Safety (EHS) Operations Council reviews their performance 
monthly to discuss trends and risks, as well as opportunities 
for improvement.
In accordance with the Boston Scientific Environment, 
Health and Safety Policy , we integrate multiple health and 
safety metrics in our monitoring systems at the local and 
global levels. The policy is supported by our global EHS 
Essentials, which sets 143 specific expectations across 25 
health- and safety-related programs.
Our Occupational Health Council provided valuable  
employee assistance during the pandemic. They  
established a centralized helpline, staffed by Boston  
Scientific physicians and occupational health nurses to  
help guide employees with COVID-19-related queries.  
We also offered voluntary COVID-19 testing to our on-site 
employees to help reassure them of the effectiveness  
of our protective processes.
We conducted a workplace survey of more than 25,000 
employees to ask about their remote work experience 
during the pandemic and their preferences moving 
forward. Responses showed that working remotely has 
changed many employees’ thinking about their ability  
to work effectively from home and has made them  
more receptive to different types of office environments.  We incorporated survey insights into a Global Design 
Guidelines Update that addresses on-site protocols as  
well as work-from-home practices.      In 2020, we navigated the ongoing  
challenges of the pandemic in the various 
countries where our employees live and  
work. Boston Scientific took immediate
action to develop global COVID-19 guidance,  
restrictions and workplace protocols , including:
   Flexible work arrangements  for employees  
who could work from home.
  Travel restrictions and protocols .
  Company and site safety protocols .
  Workstation reconfiguration .
  Limited sales visits  to critical cases.
  Accelerated capabilities to provide remote  
physician support .
  Advanced cleaning protocols .
 COVID-19 employee resources  website.
  Office space modifications  and new building  
procedures .
  COVID-19 testing and personal protective  
equipment (PPE)  for employees.
  COVID-19 contact tracing .
  Augmented platforms for remote practitioner  
case support .
TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR) 
2020: 
0.47 TRIR  
(0.47 injuries per  
100 employees)2030 Goal: 
0.25 TRIR
(0.25 injuries per 100 
employees)
4,655 employee calls  to our physicians and nurses in 2020 
5,482 COVID-19 tests  for on-site employees in 2020  	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 35
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Advancing possibilitiesPURPOSE
Combating inequitiesHUMANITY
Improving outcomesSCIENCE
Advancing  
Possibilities
Our commitment to transforming lives 
inspires us to address inequities in the 
world around us. 
Boston Scientific collaborates with local communities, 
nonprofit organizations and providers to understand 
and address disparities within underrepresented  
populations. Whether we are improving treatment 
disparities for Black, Hispanic and Latinx people,  
providing students access to STEM opportunities,  
or empowering employees to take action in their 
communities, we are advancing possibilities for  
societal good. 	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 36
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Confronting Health  
Inequities
For more than 15 years, Boston Scientific has worked  
to eliminate health care inequities in underserved  
communities through our industry-leading program  
Close the Gap . More recently, and as the pandemic  
exposed the severity of treatment disparities and  
systemic barriers to care, we stepped up our efforts  to  
help providers identify and serve diverse populations.
Through Close the Gap, Boston Scientific launched a  
public awareness campaign focused on health inequities 
related to heart and vascular disease outcomes in the U.S. The campaign augments the work we’re doing with local 
health care providers and major health systems. This 
includes sharing community-specific disparity data and 
patient education materials to help address the treatment 
gaps  among patients who identify as women and people 
of color.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS:
 HEALTH EQUITY CHAMPION:           PAIGE BINGHAM
  In 2020, Paige Bingham became the national program 
director of Close the Gap. A longtime health equity  
champion, Paige offers insights on the team’s work to 
address treatment disparities and increase diversity in 
clinical trials .
“ The Boston Scientific Close the Gap  
program empowers physicians with data 
and epidemiological insights to identify 
local treatment gaps and customizable  
resources to reach vulnerable populations.  
This approach helps to inform and activate 
measurable change to save lives.”   
  Paige Bingham , national program director, Close  
the Gap
 In 2020, Boston Scientific launched a public awareness campaign focused on health inequity awareness.	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 37
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Addressing the Gaps: COVID-19 Heart Study
The most vulnerable populations are at the greatest risk 
for conditions such as heart disease, but they are the least 
studied in large-scale clinical trials. According to census 
data, Black Americans represent 13.4 percent of the U.S. 
population, yet peer-reviewed research shows they make 
up only 5 to 7 percent of clinical trial participants.1 In 2020, 
we began work with Yale/Yale-New Haven Hospital  
Center for Outcomes Research and Evaluation (Yale-CORE) 
to increase the diversity of representation in the Boston 
Scientific COVID-19 Heart Study , developed to better  
understand how COVID-19 affects people with heart  
conditions.  
1  Clark	LT,	Watkins	L, 	Piña	IL,	et	al.	Increasing	diversity	in	clinical	trials: 	Overcoming	critical	barriers. 	 
Curr Probl Cardiol .	2019	May;44(5):148-72.
 Paul Underwood, MD, and medical  
director at Boston Scientific, has been 
working to reduce health disparities for 
women and people of color since 1990. 
He made it his mission to fight racism . 
“ The data show that the most 
vulnerable populations have 
the greatest risk of heart  
disease but are the least  
studied in large-scale clinical  
trials. The opportunities  
to make an impact are  
fantastic when we use  
objective data to guide the 
way. I am so proud to be  
working for a company  
taking tangible actions to 
battle systemic racism.”        
  Paul Underwood, MD ,  
medical director, Boston ScientificIN THE UNITED STATES:
13.4% of the population  
is Black
Only 5-7% of clinical trial  
participants are BlackA 40-YEAR BATTLE AGAINST RACISM	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 38
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Playing Our Part:  
Combating Racism 
Racism in the United States and around the world  
was front and center in 2020 as we witnessed the tragic  
death of George Floyd, preceded by those of Breonna 
Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others. The Boston 
Scientific Executive Committee issued an open letter   
reaffirming the company’s commitment to contribute  
to a more equitable and inclusive society where all people 
feel safe and valued and have a voice. As part of that 
pledge, Boston Scientific is donating $3.5 million over a 
multiyear period to combat inequity, systemic racism  
and injustice in our communities. We are also accelerating 
our internal diversity, equity and inclusion programs,  
which include initiatives that address discrimination  
and racism.$3.5 million to combat 
racism and advance social justiceCOMBATING RACISM STRATEGY
Community
Expand the conversation on  
anti-racism and support social  
justice organizations
Economic Empowerment  
Accelerate the development of  
Black-owned businesses
Education  
Educate and create professional  
opportunities for Black youth
Health Care Disparities  
Address health care disparities in  
the community
Government/Policies
Advocate for change	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 39
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblySupporting  
Our Communities
The work we do is about caring for human life, and  
it draws us into the communities where we live and  
work. Our employees help us shape the way we care for 
the world around us. In 2020, employee engagement  
expanded to 54 countries and philanthropic contributions 
focused on the coronavirus pandemic, social justice  
and natural disasters.
Our global community engagement  
is focused on three key areas: 
BSC CONTRIBUTIONS AND ENGAGEMENT
54 countries
Employee community engagement
$70 million
Contributions for medical research, 
fellowships, educational and charitable 
giving
$1.2 million
Boston Scientific Foundation contributions
+1,700 nonprofits
supported with donations or grant funding
 
 
  Advancing education   
To develop diverse talent who  
will create health solutions  
for generations to come, we 
support science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) 
programming for underserved 
5- to 18-year-old students 
around the world. 
  Advancing health   
To decrease health disparities  
in chronic diseases among 
underserved communities,  
we aim to provide access to 
quality care, support disease 
prevention and help prepare 
children for a healthy journey 
into adulthood. 
  Advancing community   
To improve life in their local  
communities, we empower  
our employees to donate their 
talent and resources through 
our strategic matching gifts  
and volunteer programs. 
1
2
3	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 40
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Relief Efforts 
When an event occurs that devastates one of our  
communities, Boston Scientific works to ensure employee 
safety, assess impact and determine how the company  
can support relief efforts. For example, in 2020, the  
company coordinated and encouraged employee  
donations to help people affected by the wildfires in  
Australia and California, Hurricane Laura, the explosion  
in Beirut, the coronavirus epidemic as well as victims  
of social injustice and racial inequity. Employees who  
chose to donate to these efforts received a matching  
financial contribution from Boston Scientific.EMPLOYEE ACTION AFTER BEIRUT BLAST
In August 2020, an explosion in Beirut killed more  
than 200 people, injured more than 7,500 and left  
an estimated 300,000 people homeless. Boston  
Scientific Peripheral Interventions Training Manager 
Rawad Abou Dihn, who has a nursing background, 
quickly rallied colleagues and friends to turn the  
entrance of a local building into an emergency wound 
clinic. The team provided critical aid to an average  
of 100 people daily and helped reduce the tremendous 
strain on hospitals overwhelmed with critically wounded 
people and COVID-19 patients.
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 4035% annual increase of  
employees participating in global 
matching gifts program  Tarek El Rahbani led local efforts to support Boston  
Scientific employees and operations in Beirut following 
the explosion.
“ As a Lebanese Boston Scientific employee,  
I am grateful for the support we received 
from colleagues around the world and  
proud of the quick actions taken by  
Rawad and volunteers. Our commitment  
to our caring core value  is evidenced by  
how our employees responded with  
compassion and integrity.”         
  Tarek El Rahbani,  managing director, Middle East, 
North Africa, Turkey and Central AsiaPERSPECTIVE FROM BEIRUT           TAREK EL RAHBANI	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 41
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
In Marlborough, Massachusetts , employees made and 
donated masks and other items to local nursing homes, 
hospitals and homeless shelters. In Galway, Ireland , employees lifted spirits by donating 
critical supplies, including gloves, masks, coveralls and 
boxes of chocolate Easter eggs, to local nursing homes.In Singapore , employees packed and donated more 
than 350 kits filled with essential items such as hand  
sanitizer, face shields and healthy snacks to local  
nursing home residents and health care workers.+ + =$18 million+  
Global relief efforts$1 million+   
Charitable donations$13 million + 
Face shields,  
other innovations$4 million+   
Personal Protective  
Equipment (PPE)  
PITCHING IN WITH PPE GLOBALLYCOVID-19 RELIEF BY THE NUMBERS	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 42
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
In an urgent 2020 undertaking called Project Shield , 
Boston Scientific employees assembled and donated one 
million face shields in just over one month. Urology Research 
and Development (R&D) Project Manager Alissa Brandon 
came up with the idea and collaborated with colleagues to 
launch the initiative . The effort rapidly expanded to include: 
  12 Boston Scientific sites.  
   More than 400 employees around the world contributing 
their time and expertise. 
   They also collaborated with the grassroots organization 
GetUsPPE , to deliver the PPE to health care facilities in  
more than 40 U.S. states and territories.
 “   This shows what can be 
accomplished when a team 
with a lot of heart and 
know-how comes together 
to collaborate. So many 
people stepped up to
contribute and help scale this project to 
where it is today. I am grateful for our caring 
team who demonstrated heroic hustle.”         
Alissa Brandon , R&D manager, Urology
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SPOTLIGHT:           PROTECTING OUR HEALTH CARE HEROES	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 43
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Global Signature Health Grant Program
The World Health Organization is estimating a shortage 
of 19 million health care workers in low- and lower-middle 
income countries by 2030. Recognizing this crisis early  
on, Boston Scientific launched a Global Signature Health 
Grant Program in 2016. Since then, we have partnered  
with nonprofit organizations that are working globally  
to increase the number of trained health care workers  
and improve the quality and availability of chronic  
disease screenings.  The World Health Organization  
is estimating a shortage  
of 19 million  health care 
workers in low- and lower-middle 
income countries by 2030
MEXICO: Boston Scientific 
supported Partners in Health 
between 2017 and 2019 and  
trained newly graduated  
Mexican physicians in the  
diagnosis and treatment of  
chronic disease.COLOMBIA: New in 2020, we 
support Project HOPE in its 
work with the Ministry of 
Health and local universities 
to deliver chronic disease 
training for providers caring 
for millions of Venezuelan 
refugees.SOUTH AFRICA: Our grant to 
Project HOPE funded work  
that trained health care  
workers and created screening  
protocols for diabetes and  
hypertension from 2016 to 
2018. INDIA: Beginning in 2016, we 
collaboratively developed 
training tools with Project HOPE 
that support the diagnosis and 
treatment of chronic disease.
New in 2020, our grant to 
Population Services International 
funds the creation of digital 
tools that better identify and 
follow patients living with  
chronic disease.MALAYSIA: Since 2018, we have 
supported Children’s HeartLink to 
help create a regional center of 
excellence for the diagnosis and  
treatment of congenital heart 
disease in children.GLOBAL SIGNATURE HEALTH GRANT COLLABORATIONS SINCE 2016 “ We are incredibly thankful for Boston 
Scientific’s commitment to improving the 
world’s health and for a partnership that  
is helping people around the world access 
the care they need.”         
 Rabih Torbay , president and CEO, Project HOPE
Project HOPE
Project HOPEProject HOPE, Population Services InternationalPartners in Health
Children’s HeartLink	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 44
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyProject HOPE Aid in Colombia
When Colombia declared COVID-19 a health emergency, 
Project HOPE  redirected its efforts, and a portion of grant 
funding, to work with the Ministry of Health, Departmental 
Health Institute and local hospitals to train health care  
workers and non-medical staff, conduct COVID-19 screenings 
and distribute PPE.
   5,616 people  screened for COVID-19. 
   94 health care workers  trained.
    238 non-medical staff and local volunteers  trained in 
hygiene promotion, infection protection and control,  
and contact tracing.
   7,543 health consultations  provided.
   415+ full sets of PPE  distributed.
   1,500 gloves  provided.
    500+ protective lenses  distributed.
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 45
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
STEM Education
On-site events and in-person mentoring were put on  
hold for much of the year, but Boston Scientific found  
innovative ways to continue to bring STEM education  
to underrepresented youth. Around the world, STEM  
volunteers used new technology to expose students to 
careers in industries like ours.
   China: In honor of Children’s Day, our STEM team  
created “Know Your Body” videos, including How does  
air pollution harm your lungs?  and Why lip color turns 
darker when your heart does not feel well .
    Puerto Rico: Employee volunteers gave elementary 
school students a virtual tour of our Dorado plant  
that featured an interactive pH experiment. High school 
students also had the opportunity to interact with  
an online panel of STEM experts and watch a video  
simulating a product being implanted.
   Ireland: To recognize Engineering Day, the team held  
a contest in which 8- to 12-year-old students had the 
chance to win a “STEM Day in a Box” that featured  
content and experiments in chemistry, engineering,  
physics and battery technology. More than 750  
youngsters representing 46 schools in 25 towns  
participated in the contest.
Our Community Engagement team launched BSC  
Buddies, a program that connects employees’  
school-aged children online across different  
geographies, cultures and languages. The 2020 pilot 
paired 400 children from more than 20 countries.34,000 kits packed that  
provided STEM activities, health 
and wellness essentials, and other 
necessities to populations in need 
around the world
BSC BUDDIES	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 46
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Prioritizing  
our planetPURPOSE
Making a global  
commitmentHUMANITY
Reducing our  
climate impactsSCIENCEProtecting the  
Environment
Our commitment to improving patient 
health comes with a responsibility to 
protect the planet we all share. 
As we work to solve health care’s toughest  
challenges, we are taking decisive action to  
reduce our environmental impacts and achieve  
carbon neutrality. 	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 47
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Responding to  
Climate Change 
Boston Scientific sets ambitious climate change goals,  
and we are on track to meet our commitment to  
achieve carbon neutrality  in all manufacturing and  
key distribution sites by 2030. We became the first  
medical device manufacturer to make such a pledge   
in 2017. Since the start of 2017, we have reduced our  
carbon footprint by 50 percent.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS:
  Ronan Coffey has led our Global Energy Management System (GEMS) 
since 2018.
“ Carbon neutrality is the right thing to 
do, and our C3 strategy is the right way 
to do it. Our Global Energy Management
System has grown from being a new way to look at  
energy consumption to being the actual language we 
use to talk about energy management and carbon 
emissions. GEMS is built into how we work. Our teams 
are making great progress around the world.”
 Ronan Coffey,  global energy manager, Boston Scientific  
C3 STRATEGY
Cut   
energy use emissions.Convert  
to renewable energy 
sources instead of  
relying on fossil fuels.Compensate   
with carbon credits and 
offset projects for any 
remaining unavoidable 
emissions.A central component of the company’s carbon neutrality approach is our C3 energy strategy. Global and site teams  
collaborate across Boston Scientific to meet its objectives:
ACHIEVING CARBON NEUTRALITY:           RONAN COFFEY	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 48
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
2013123k
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030Greenhouse Gas Emis sions:
Tonnes C O₂ Equiv alents                                                                • Renew able thermal
                                                   • Electriﬁc ation
                                      • Renew able ener gy cr edit pur chases
                          • Supplier r enew ables
             • On-site solar installations
• Power pur chase agr eements
Scope 2:  Electricity
Scope 1:  Natur al Gas% Renewable Energy2013–2030: RAMP TO CARBON NEUTRALITY
Interim Goals:
50% renewable  
electricity by 2021100% renewable  
electricity by 202490% renewable  
energy (all  
sources) by 2027Boston Scientific is on track to achieving carbon neutrality  
in all manufacturing and key distribution sites by 2030
2020 HONORS
In 2020, Boston Scientific was named  to the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI) for North America, a well-  
respected global benchmark for corporate responsibility.  
The list recognizes companies that deliver outstanding  
economic, social and environmental performance.  
Visit our online awards page  to read more about our 
environmental honors and distinctions.	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 49
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyGEMS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 
Using the GEMS  approach developed in conjunction with the National University of Ireland, Galway, Boston Scientific is making measurable strides toward carbon neutrality. We track  
progress and report it publicly using five GEMS key performance indicators (KPIs).  
   2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Carbon Footprint   Total amount of Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions 118,327   108,694   94,946   85,127   84,778   53,730  
(MT CO2eq)  emitted into the atmosphere from manufacturing and distribution  
 sites. Measured in tonnes of carbon equivalent.  
 
   
Energy Use  Total energy Boston Scientific Total MWh 370k  367k   364k   355k   368k   381k  
(MWh)  consumes annually to  
 manufacture our products.   
  Normalized MWh/ 49   44   40   36   34   38 
  Million $ Revenue
EM3 An energy management maturity model to establish where in 2.7 3.2 3.6 3.7 3.9 4.1 
 the “energy journey” each manufacturing site resides on a scale   
 of 0 to 5: (Minimal/Emerging/Developing/Advancing/Leading)  
 
  
Green Real Estate   Percentage of Boston Scientific real estate that is independently 27% 28% 32% 32%* 41%* 42%  
(% of total)  certified for energy efficiency by industry-leading bodies such as  
 LEED for design and Energy Star or ISO 50001 for building  
 operations.  
Renewable Energy   Percentage of total energy  Electricity Percent — — — 5% 11% 71%  
(% of total)  consumed, generated from   
 renewable sources, with BSC  
 owning the renewable  All Sources Percent — — — 3% 6% 35%   
 attributes.
*	Prior	year	numbers	restated	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 50
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly2020 ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANCES
Our Environmental  
Impact 
In 2020, we made significant progress in our C³ energy 
strategy to achieve carbon neutrality across our  
manufacturing and key distribution sites. By addressing  
the company’s energy consumption, carbon emissions  
and environmental designs, we are reducing our  
climate impacts.  
67% reduction  
in greenhouse gas emissions  
since 2009
71% of purchased electricity  
from renewable  sources 
94% of solid waste  
diverted  from landfills
Working with  
sustainability-minded 
customers, since 2017 ,
we increased   
the number of patients
reached by 20% 
while reducing 
our carbon footprint 
by 50%   BIGGER REACH, SMALLER FOOTPRINT	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 51
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyCutting Our Carbon Footprint
Tackling energy use is the first tier of our  
C3 approach. To improve energy use in our  
existing sites and develop new construction 
in an environmentally responsible manner, we adhere to 
internationally recognized programs such as Leadership  
in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) or the ISO  
50001 energy management system. In 2020, Boston  
Scientific green real estate increased to 42%, up from  
27% in 2015, representing more than 3.8 million square  
feet of total company real estate. At a minimum, all  
newly constructed Boston Scientific buildings are  
LEED certified.OUR GREEN REAL ESTATE EXPANDS
   Energy Management System ISO 50001:  
5 manufacturing sites, 1 distribution center
   Leadership in Energy and Environmental  
Design (LEED):  15 buildings
  42% of Boston Scientific real  
estate  is green — representing
 3.8+ million square feet New commercial hub in Madrid, Spain . Renovated flexible, collaborative workspace in Galway, 
Ireland .New administration block in Clonmel, Ireland . 	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 52
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyConverting to Renewable Energy
Investing in and converting to renewable  
energy sources is the second action area of
the C3 strategy. We monitor the percentage of
the company’s energy generated from renewable sources, 
whether the energy is generated on-site or purchased  
from outside suppliers. In 2020, we stayed on track to  
meet our objective of sourcing or generating 100 percent  
of our electricity from renewable sources by 2024. We  
expect that by 2027, 90 percent of all energy at Boston  
Scientific facilities, including electricity and natural gas,  
will be renewable.
   Our Clonmel, Cork and Galway, Ireland facilities and  
our Kerkrade, the Netherlands distribution center source  
100 percent renewable energy. 
   Using hydroelectric, wind and solar power, our  
manufacturing sites in Heredia and Coyol, Costa  
Rica have been carbon-neutral since 2016.
   In our Marlborough and Quincy, Massachusetts locations,  
we have on-site solar installations that generated a total  
of 3.2 million kilowatt-hours of renewable electricity  
in 2020. An on-site solar installation at our Dorado,  
Puerto Rico facility, slated for completion in mid-2021,  
will deliver approximately 17 percent of the site’s  
electricity needs.Compensating With Carbon Offsets
Carbon offsetting is the final step we consider 
taking to reach carbon neutrality. While our 
primary focus is on cutting energy use and
converting to clean energy sources, we compensate with 
carbon offset projects when we have unavoidable carbon 
emissions or cannot yet rely on renewable energy options. 
Potential projects are carefully assessed to ensure the 
results will negate our remaining carbon emissions.  
For example, Boston Scientific collaborated with the 
eco-conscious platform Treedom  in 2020 to plant more 
than 5,000 trees in Kenya. The initiative will benefit local  
communities and contribute to cleaner air in the region.
Climate Risk Management
Boston Scientific has begun integrating climate-related 
financial disclosures into the way we manage climate-  
related risks and opportunities. In 2021, we will complete  
a comprehensive assessment of our business risks  
associated with climate change.
  By 2027 , we expect 90% of all  
energy used in Boston Scientific 
facilities will be renewable
	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 53
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Conserving Water 
Water is a critical shared resource, and we are committed  
to managing its use responsibly. While Boston Scientific 
operations are not water intensive, we work to minimize 
consumption and prepare for water supply challenges. 
Based on an assessment using the World Resources  
Institute Aqueduct risk-mapping tool, we have determined 
that 11 company locations are at low overall water-related 
risk, and six facilities are in the low-to-medium risk  
category. Our efforts to assess water-related risks and 
opportunities will expand in 2021 to include the company’s 
significant commercial operations. Water usage at Boston 
Scientific manufacturing and major distribution centers  
is predominantly associated with employees, which  
accounts for 69 percent of our total water consumption.
Waste Management and Recycling 
We are working to divert all non-hazardous waste  
from landfills and incineration by 2030. Boston Scientific  
facilities will participate in the TRUE (Total Resource  
Use and Efficiency) certification program to meet this  
objective. TRUE strives to change the way materials  
flow through society so that all products are eventually 
reused and diverted from landfills, incineration and the 
environment.2020 RECYCLING AND RECOVERY
 79% 
 7 ,922 metric tons
 total non-hazardous waste  
 recycled 52%
 509 metric tons
 of hazardous and regulated  
 waste recovered or recycled 	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 54
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Results from Cork:  
Taking Recycling to the Next Level
After achieving a recycling rate of more than 90 percent, 
our Cork, Ireland team extended their success by  
recovering reusable materials. In 2020, they began  
setting aside plastic packaging made from Polyethylene 
Terephthalate, a material that can be ground into  
flakes and reused if properly isolated in the collection  
process.This approach also results in less processing  
energy than recycling. By taking this extra step, the  
team diverted 20 metric tons of plastic for recovery. 
Our Cork site made significant progress toward waste 
avoidance in 2020 — their recycling initiatives resulted 
in 20 metric tons of plastic recovered.  Success in Cork: 
 90% recycling rate achieved 
 20 metric tons  
 of plastic recovered 
    
“ Focusing on avoidance and reuse is key 
to reducing our environmental impact. 
For the future of our planet, we have a 
duty to go beyond standard recycling.”     
    Seamus Gethins , global director, Global Environment, 
Health and SafetyGLOBAL WASTE MANAGEMENT PERSPECTIVE:          SEAMUS GETHINS	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 55
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Boston Scientific is committed to  
conducting business with unwavering 
ethics, strong corporate governance  
and regulatory compliance. 
We insist on integrity in all our working relationships 
inside and outside the company. Our practices  
protect human rights, promote accountability and 
ensure that we act responsibly as a global citizen.  
Creating value  
responsiblyPURPOSE
Respecting  
human rightsHUMANITY
Innovating  
with integritySCIENCE
Creating Value   
Responsibly  	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 56
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
  Jessica Pill leads our efforts to ensure compliance with  
regulatory requirements while acting with integrity and  
living our core values. 
“ Despite how we’ve had to change the way  
we work this year, we are doing our part to 
keep each other safe and live our values  
while continuing to serve patients and  
navigate challenges together.”   
  Jessica Pill , chief compliance officer and vice president, 
Compliance
Compliance, Ethics  
and Integrity 
Our work contributes value to the lives of patients,  
employees and people in communities around the world. 
Social responsibility is built into how we deliver innovations, 
collaborate and operate. Our employees have a shared 
commitment to:
   Act honestly and ethically in all company matters.
   Protect the privacy of patients, customers and employees.
   Treat one another with respect and fairness.
   Hold one another accountable to ensure quality in  
everything we do.The Boston Scientific global compliance team provides 
employees with the resources and training they need to 
do business with integrity, treat customers and suppliers 
fairly, and report ethics concerns when they arise. Led by 
our chief compliance officer, the team collaborates across 
the company to monitor our activities and performance. 
The chief compliance officer reports quarterly to the risk 
committee of our board of directors and more frequently  
as needed.
Code of Conduct  
Every employee is required to read and understand the 
Boston Scientific Code of Conduct , which is the foundation 
for all our business practices and relationships. Employees 
complete annual training on the Code of Conduct, as  
well as multiple mandatory training courses throughout  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS:
the year that reinforce company policies, explain  
corruption- and compliance-related risks and provide 
resources for reporting concerns. Many of these trainings 
offer scenario-based content that help people respond 
ethically to issues they may face in their daily work.
We continually assess opportunities to adapt our Code of  
Conduct in light of developments in the global marketplace, 
including emerging technologies and business practices. 
In January 2020, we released an updated Code of Conduct 
with greater specificity about privacy rights, new language 
about maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, 
additional details about data privacy and expanded  
guidance on conflicts of interest.GLOBAL COMPLIANCE:           LEADING WITH INTEGRITY	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 57
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Non-Retaliation Policy
The Boston Scientific Non-Retaliation Policy is an essential 
component of our compliance program. It prohibits any 
form of retaliation, direct or indirect, against an individual 
who raises a concern in good faith. This protection  
extends to anyone who assists with, or cooperates in,  
an investigation or report of misconduct.
Advice Line 
All employees are responsible for immediately reporting 
any suspected violation of the Code of Conduct and  
related company policies. Ethics concerns may be  
confidentially reported through the Boston Scientific  
Advice Line. The toll-free, 24-hour service is operated by  
a third party seven days a week in multiple languages.“INTEGRITY TOGETHER” CAMPAIGN
We regularly promote employee awareness of the 
Code of Conduct and Non-Retaliation Policy. In 2020, 
our week-long integrity campaign featured video  
messages from senior leaders and interactive virtual 
events that emphasized the importance of working 
ethically. In addition, regional and country leaders 
reinforced the campaign 
through local email  
messages, videos and  
online roundtables.Global Human Rights and Labor Standards 
We adhere to human rights and labor laws in every location 
where our company operates. In 2020, we finalized the 
Boston Scientific Human Rights Policy , which articulates  
our commitment to promoting human rights principles  
as recognized and understood by the international  
community. These principles include vigilance against 
modern slavery, human trafficking, bribery, discrimination 
and harassment. 
Our human rights policy supports and is guided by the 
principles of the United Nations (UN) International Bill  
of Rights as well as:
  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
   The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights.
   The International Covenant on Economic, Social and 
Cultural Rights.
   The International Labor Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
   Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting  
Standards.
We also adhere to disclosure requirements under the  
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and the  
U.K. Modern Slavery Act.
As the pandemic 
changed how we work, 
we continued our Open 
Doors initiative using 
online resources to  
ensure managers could 
maintain a virtual open 
door with employees, 
including those with 
compliance concerns. 
EQUIPPING LEADERS TO ADDRESS EMPLOYEE CONCERNS	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 58
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
BEST-IN-CLASS GLOBAL SECURITY 
The Boston Scientific global 
security and resiliency team 
was ranked in the top 10 of all 
U.S. manufacturers’ security 
departments in Security magazine’s  
2020 Security 500  rankings . The team’s 
leadership has also been recognized  for  
its commitment to diversity, equity and 
inclusion. Risk Management  
and Global Security
Under the oversight of our board of directors, our  
enterprise risk management team supports company  
leadership with guidance to achieve performance  
objectives. The team analyzes strategic, operational,  
financial, legal and compliance risks to ensure we can 
adapt to challenges, pursue opportunities to help patients 
and meet commitments to stockholders. Led by our vice 
president of global internal audit, our risk management 
experts identify enterprise-level developments that  
could be barriers to meeting customer and patient  
needs or preserving and growing stockholder value.  
Any issue that presents a potential risk to the company’s 
financial results, operations or reputation is reported  
by management to the Board of Directors or one of  
its committees.
  Matt Sprague leads our team of risk management experts that identify enterprise-  
level developments that could be barriers to meeting customer and patient needs. 
“ The COVID-19 pandemic has broadened our definition of risk 
and expanded the scenarios we plan for in our risk manage -
ment approach and processes, resulting in sharper action 
plans, escalation paths and lines of communication.”         
  Matt Sprague,  vice president, Global Internal AuditRISK MANAGEMENT:         PREPARING TO HANDLE ANY SITUATION	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 59
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Business Resiliency
The Boston Scientific business resiliency strategy ensures 
that we can sustain operations and secure our facilities 
in the event of a crisis. Our global security and resiliency 
team plans and prepares for a range of potential threats, 
including wildfires, tornados, earthquakes, hurricanes and 
the effects of climate change. They use risk and impact 
assessments to plan for disasters or events that could  
interfere with our ability to deliver products for patients  
or jeopardize the safety of our people, suppliers or  
communities. The team also works closely with our  
IT disaster recovery experts to identify technology  
vulnerabilities so we can make the right investments  
to keep company operations secure. 
When COVID-19 cases first emerged, our  
security, resiliency and medical teams acted 
quickly to protect our people and business 
operations while taking steps to ensure that
our devices and therapies would continue to reach patients. 
Our employees provided on-site support to customers  
in accordance with guidance from local health authorities, 
as well as hospital protocols. To prevent on-site outbreaks 
and ensure extra safety, employees who could perform 
their job functions from home worked remotely with  
flexible work arrangements. We also shipped personal  
protective equipment (PPE) to company locations for  
employees’ use, provided COVID-19 testing for employees 
and issued pandemic guidance for teams globally.  
Based on virus-tracking data, we implemented new  
safety protocols, adapted facilities for social distancing  
and rolled out plans for the tiered resumption of  
manufacturing operations in locations where case  
counts subsided.   Ty Harris leads the company’s business resiliency efforts to help 
ensure continuity in operations and safety for our employees. 
“ We have a strong global resiliency model to  
protect the enterprise in the event of a crisis. In 
early January, when our global intelligence team 
alerted us to the COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan, we 
were able to act immediately to anticipate the  
extent of the threat and keep employees safe. With 
new protocols and work streams, we kept critical 
operations intact and created work environments 
without community-spread at our sites.”
 Ty Harris,  director, Global Security and Resiliency  
Protecting Global Assets
Our global security and resiliency team ensures the  
safety of our people as well as enterprise assets and  
operations. The team uses industry-standard protocols  
and global situational awareness tactics to manage  
our security posture and to maintain a global security  
operations center 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  
Their work to maintain and enhance physical security  
and cybersecurity is supported by a network of partners 
specializing in cybersecurity, environment, health and  
safety, supply chain, global regulation and data privacy.BUSINESS CONTINUITY:           RESILIENCY AND THE GLOBAL PANDEMIC	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 60
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyGovernance 
The Boston Scientific Board of Directors has well-estab -
lished corporate governance guidelines  and adopted  
written charters for each of its standing committees  
(audit, executive compensation and human resources,  
risk, nominating and governance). Our Code of Conduct 
reflects the company’s commitment to good corporate 
governance and compliance with the rules and listing  
standards of the New York Stock Exchange and other  
legal requirements. 
Global Tax Strategy and Compliance
Our business makes a positive economic and 
social impact around the world, strengthening 
the communities where our people live and 
work. In keeping with our commitment to 
social responsibility, we prioritize our role as a responsible 
taxpayer. We comply with all applicable tax laws, regulations 
and related disclosure requirements in every jurisdiction 
where we operate. Our tax professionals are committed  
to the highest compliance standards and use processes 
based on standardization and automation to minimize  
our tax risk. Political Involvement and Contributions
Boston Scientific supports public policies that 
promote diversity, equity and inclusion and  
improve patient health, our employees’ lives 
and the communities we serve. We advocate
for policies that focus on increasing patient access to 
life-changing and life-saving technologies. The company 
posts annual updates  on contributions to political action 
committees, corporate contributions to state officials  
and memberships in associations that engage in public 
policy advocacy.
To advance sound public policy, the Boston Scientific  
Corporation Political Action Committee (PAC) facilitates  
voluntary political contributions by eligible employees  
and our board of directors in accordance with federal  
law. While the PAC supports our company values, it  
does not accept any contributions made on behalf of  
any corporations, including Boston Scientific, nor does it 
contribute to presidential campaigns. The PAC is run by  
a governing board of senior employees who represent  
our primary businesses. The nominating and governance 
committee of our board of directors annually reviews  
political contributions made by our company and the  
PAC. Contributions to political candidates are bipartisan,  
and to be eligible for funding, candidates must meet  
one or more of the following criteria:   Policy alignment: The candidate is aligned with  
the company’s top public policy priorities; or,
   Leadership and jurisdiction: The candidate serves  
in elected leadership within the Congress and/or sits  
on a congressional committee with jurisdiction over 
issues impacting our business; or, 
   Constituency: The candidate represents a district or  
state in which a company facility exists and/or serves  
a significant population of our employees; or,
   Values and reputation: The candidate’s character  
and integrity align with BSC’s corporate reputation  
and values.	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 61
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblySetting Industry Standards
Boston Scientific collaborates with trade associations  
and regulatory bodies around the world to set new  
standards in quality and stay informed about regulatory  
developments so we can be agile in our response. We 
make it a priority to help shape industry and regulatory 
approaches to quality by sharing the best practices  
behind our patient-centric systems.   FDA Digital Health: We are working closely with the FDA 
through the Digital Health Software Precertification Pilot 
Program to expedite patient access to safe and effective 
software-based medical innovations.
   Medical Device Innovation Consortium: We are part of 
this public-private partnership with the FDA to advance 
solutions that promote patient access to innovative  
medical technologies.  Responsible Marketing
Boston Scientific is committed to ethical and responsible 
marketing and promotion. Our Code of Conduct and  
other employee policies emphasize the importance of  
fair and honest communications with patients, customers 
and the public. The company’s sales and marketing training 
for all customer-facing employees covers fair and honest  
marketing practices, respect for intellectual property,  
interactions with physicians and public officials, and  
conflicts of interest.
 2020 Responsible Sales and   
 Marketing Training: 
 $1.9 million  invested  
 in sales and marketing training   
 programs 
 +12,000 hours of training  
 for customer-facing employees	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 62
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
Supporting Supplier Diversity
Our approach to supplier selection involves building  
diversity, equity and inclusion throughout the Boston  
Scientific supplier network. In 2020, as part of our  
combating racism strategy, we took steps to further  
expand the number of Black-owned enterprises that  
provide supply chain services for our business in the  
United States. We also supported small and diverse  
vendors during the pandemic by shortening payment 
terms for those whose business with us is under $250,000. 
We prioritize partnerships with certified companies that 
share our dedication to improving the quality of patient 
care, including businesses that are: 
  Minority-owned
  Women-owned
  Small or disadvantaged
  Service-disabled  Veteran-owned 
  LGBTQ-owned
  Disability-owned
“ I’ve never been more impressed by our  
diverse network of suppliers than I was  
in 2020. Each came through to ensure  
our products were available wherever they 
were needed in the world. We are proud  
to partner with businesses with so much  
diversity of talent and perspective.”         
  Saken Khokhar,  manager, Supplier DiversityPROTECTING SUPPLY CHAIN STABILITY IN 2020
In early 2020, the Boston Scientific global 
sourcing team shifted resources to keep 
our supply chain stable; as a result,  
we did not experience manufacturing
outages amid the pandemic. The interventions we 
took included:
   Tracking supplier status and inventory in risk 
areas and taking action to prevent shortages.
   Monitoring safety stock levels and building up 
product supplies as warranted.
   Mitigating risk for technology and material  
shortages by identifying new vendors.
  Analyzing continuity risks by product family.Sustainable Supply Chain
The company’s manufacturing and supply chain teams 
lead our efforts to plan, source, manufacture and distribute  
more than 17,000 products to customers and patients 
worldwide. More than 22,000 indirect and direct suppliers  
meet the highest quality standards for materials and 
service, ethical conduct, and compliance with all applicable 
laws and regulations. To identify supply chain partners  
supporting product development and ongoing supply for 
manufacturing, we use a standardized supplier performance 
tool that assesses each organization’s business practices 
and corporate citizenship. This protocol enables us to build 
relationships with responsible, high-performing suppliers 
who make significant contributions to our work.
 2020 Supplier Diversity: 
 Worked with 3,200   
 diverse suppliers
 Spent $599 million on  
 the services of diverse suppliers PERSPECTIVE ON SUPPORTING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY:           SAKEN KHOKHAR	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 63
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment Responsibly
The new SYNERGY™ XD Bioabsorbable Polymer  
Stent single-barrier packaging system reduced total 
shipping weight by 26.9 metric tons globally.
Packaging and Labeling 
Packaging practices at Boston Scientific reflect the critical 
need to ensure the highest quality sterilization, distribution, 
storage and use of our medical devices. We collaborate 
with customers and conduct usability assessments to  
ensure we are meeting their needs and requirements.  
The company has controls in place to verify that our  
product labeling meets global labeling regulations and  
all internal quality standards.Sustainability in Packaging and Labeling
We develop packaging sustainability goals under the 
guidance of a global sustainability packaging and labeling 
steering committee. Our packaging and labeling practices 
include optimizing design, reducing waste and limiting 
emissions from shipping. In 2020, we conducted a  
global survey with customers to learn more about their 
sustainability practices and how we can work together  
to reduce waste and emissions. As a member of the 
Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council, we participated  
in its work to increase the recycling of plastics in clinical 
settings. This work has improved our ability to trace raw 
materials and learn how our customers dispose of the 
plastics used to safely deliver our products.
Boston Scientific packaging teams routinely share case 
studies to communicate the company’s support for  
sustainability and to share successful practices with  
our global teams. In 2020, we shared the following  
accomplishments: 
   Packaging consolidation: By consolidating sterile barrier 
systems and sourcing more packaging materials locally 
in Clonmel, Ireland, the Neuromodulation team avoided  
using 755 kg of plastic and 1.03 metric tons of carbon 
emissions.
   Cold chain packaging redesign: By developing new  
packaging for SpaceOAR™ Hydrogel and SpaceOAR  
Vue™ Hydrogel that uses cold chain technology, we 
shipped more product per pallet and extended the  
time products can spend in transport.
   Packaging material efficiency: By shifting from two-pouch 
packaging to a single-pouch and thinner carton for the 
SYNERGY™ XD Bioabsorbable Polymer Stent, we reduced 
total shipping weight by 26.9 metric tons worldwide.
REDUCING WASTE WITH ELECTRONIC INSTRUCTIONS
To reduce paper waste, we host an eLabeling website  
where customers can download Instructions for Use 
(IFU) for an increasing number of Boston Scientific  
products. Many IFU booklets that were previously  
printed and shipped with devices are now available 
online in multiple languages. By converting to  
electronic-only instructions for customers in Korea  
and Russia, we cut paper waste in the region by  
35 metric tons in 2020.
2020 Packaging Sustainability 
Snapshot: 
 164 metric tons of   
 packaging removed from waste   
 stream
 1,100 acres of forest saved
 5,300 products diverted  
 from landfills during development
 697 pallet shipments avoidedPACKAGING MATERIAL EFFICIENCY	 Boston	Scientific	2020	Performance	Report		 64
Our Mission  Patient Spotlight Table of Contents A Message to Company Profile Transforming Care Investing in  Advancing Protecting the Creating Value  
   Stakeholders    Our People Possibilities Environment ResponsiblyBoston Scientific Corporation
300 Boston Scientific Way
Marlborough, MA 01752-1234
bostonscientific.com©	2021	Boston	Scientific	Corporation	or	its	affiliates. 	 
All	rights	reserved. 	PR2020