TRANSFORMING LIVES
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC  2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT12
Boston Scientific  
by the Numbers
13  
Meaningful Innovation
15  
Corporate Social  
Responsibility at  
Boston Scientific
53  
Non-GAAP  
Reconciliations03
Our Mission  
and Core Values
04  
A Message from  
Our Chairman and CEO
10
Financial Highlights
11  
Boston Scientific 
at a Glance
Throughout this  
document, unless  
otherwise noted,  
all revenue and other 
growth rates represent 
fiscal year 2018  
compared to fiscal  
year 2017. TABLE OF CONTENTS BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.2
17  
OUR PLANET
 Climate Change 
  Environmental Impact
  Recognitions for  
Sustainability  
Leadership
  Green Team  
Environmental  
Sustainability  
Initiatives24  
OUR PEOPLE
  Accelerating Diversity 
and Inclusion
  Attracting and  
Engaging Diverse  
Talent
  Leadership  
Commitment
  Listening to Support  
an Inclusive Culture
  Employee Resource 
Groups
  Setting the Bar Higher
  Employee Growth  
and Development
  Compensation and 
Benefits
  Embracing New 
 Life-Work Needs 
  Promoting Health  
Equity
  Inspiring the Next  
Generation of Leaders
  Giving Back to  
Our Communities42 
OUR PRACTICES
  Working  
Responsibly
 Governance
  Compliance, Ethics 
and Integrity
  Developing  
Innovative Products
  Quality and Safety
  Sustainable Supply 
Chain
  Packaging and  
Labeling
  Supporting Small 
Business and  
Supplier Diversity  
  BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.3
OUR MISSION AND CORE VALUES
Boston Scientific provides health grants to  
organizations such as the Dimock Center in  
Boston, Massachusetts, which is committed to  
providing the local community with equitable  
access to comprehensive healthcare and  
education.Boston Scientific is dedicated to transforming lives  
through innovative medical solutions that improve the  
health of patients around the world.
Our work is guided by core values that define Boston Scientific culture and empower our employees.
CARING: We act with integrity and compassion to support patients, customers, our communities  
and each other. 
DIVERSITY: We embrace diversity and value unique talents, ideas and experiences of our employees.
GLOBAL COLLABORATION: We work collaboratively to pursue global opportunities that extend  
the reach of our medical solutions.
HIGH PERFORMANCE: We strive for high performance to benefit our patients, clinicians and  
shareholders.
MEANINGFUL INNOVATION: We foster an environment of creativity to transform new ideas  
intro breakthrough services and solutions that create value for patients, customers and employees.
WINNING SPIRIT: We adapt to change and act with speed, agility and accountability to further  
improve patient care.In our early days as a  
company, Boston Scientific  
established a mission to  
transform lives through  
innovative medical solutions 
that improve the health of  
patients around the world.
Throughout our history, our leaders and innovators 
played a significant role in advancing science  
through more accessible, lower cost and lower  
trauma medical innovations. This year will mark  
the company’s 40th anniversary, and our mission  
continues to hold true and inspire our work today.  
It challenges us to do more for our customers  
and the patients we serve together, while driving  
sustainable and inclusive business practices.
I am extremely proud that our global team of dedicated 
employees demonstrated high performance across 
all businesses, functions and regions in 2018. We 
delivered on our financial commitments to shareholders 
while investing for durable, long-term growth and 
most importantly, we worked together to help improve 
the lives of approximately 30 million patients – more 
people than at any time in our history. We held  ourselves to the highest standards of quality  
and safety and fueled our pipeline by investing  
approximately $1 billion in research and development. 
We also announced 10 strategic acquisitions in  
support of our category leadership strategy and  
continued expansion into high growth markets.
I also know that we can’t be satisfied with the status 
quo. The healthcare industry continues to undergo  
transformation, with external forces presenting 
wide-ranging challenges and opportunities, including 
a growing burden of chronic conditions, an aging 
population, increasing consumerism, industry  
consolidation, and technology companies moving 
into healthcare. Addressing these changes will  
require agility, responsiveness and bold new thinking.  
Our mission and values will continue to guide us as 
we rise to meet future needs.
2018 BUSINESS RESULTS  
2018 was yet another strong year for Boston  
Scientific with results that extend our track record  
of excellent performance over the five-year 2014  
to 2018 period. During this time, Boston Scientific  
has grown operational sales at an average rate of  
8 percent and organic sales at an average rate of  
7 percent.1,2 We’ve improved adjusted operating  
margin 530 basis points and leveraged that to  drive an average 14 percent growth in adjusted  
earnings per share over the five-year period,  
excluding the $0.07 net tax benefit in 2018.1 Our 
common stock returned 43 percent, and our  
five- and three-year total shareholder returns  
have consistently outpaced the S&P 500 index,  
growing 194 percent and 92 percent, respectively. 
Our full-year sales in 2018 were $9.823 billion,  
representing 8.0 percent operational revenue  
growth and 7.2 percent organic revenue growth, 
which excludes 80 basis points of growth from  
certain recent acquisitions.2,3 Organic sales growth 
was 8.2 percent in MedSurg†, 7.6 percent in Rhythm 
and Neuro† and 6 percent in Cardiovascular.3 In  
addition to our strong revenue growth, we delivered 
a 50 basis point improvement in adjusted operating  
margin and full-year adjusted earnings per share 
growth of 17 percent to $1.47, which includes a $0.07 
net tax benefit for the year.1 Excluding this net tax  
benefit of $0.07, our adjusted earnings per share Mike Mahoney,  
Chairman and  
Chief Executive  
Officer
† Effective January 1, 2018, following organizational changes to align the structure of our business with our focus on active implantable devices, we revised our reportable segments. The revision reflects a reclassification of our Neuromodulation business from our Medical Surgical (MedSurg) segment to our newly 
created Rhythm and Neuro segment, which includes Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM), Electrophysiology and Neuromodulation. In addition, we reclassified the Middle East and Africa (MEA) regions from the former AMEA region with Europe to create the new EMEA region. The new Asia-Pacific (APAC) region  
was also previously part of the former AMEA region. Prior year balances and year over year growth rates (denoted with †) have been revised accordingly.    1 Adjusted operating margin, adjusted earnings per share and their related growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impacts of certain charges 
(credits) which may include amortization expense, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition-related net charges and credits, restructuring and restructuring-related net charges and credits, litigation related net charges and credits, pension termination charges, certain debt extinguishment 
charges, certain investment impairment charges and/or certain discrete tax items; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 55-57.    2 Operational revenue growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 55-57.    3 Organic  
revenue growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the first twelve months of sales from the acquisitions of the electrophysiology business of C.R. Bard Inc., the Interventional Division of Bayer AG, the American Medical Systems male urology portfolio,  
EndoChoice Holdings, Inc., Symetis SA, NxThera, Inc., Claret Medical, Inc. and Augmenix, Inc., since there are  no prior period related net sales; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 55-57.
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS: A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.4075150225300
12/18 12/17 12/16 12/15 12/14 12/13$100
075150225300
grew 11 percent.1 Through increased productivity  
and reduced costs, we were able to redirect savings 
to high-growth technologies that strengthen our 
portfolio and capabilities for the future. These results 
also generated more than $2 billion of adjusted  
free cash flow, representing 20 percent growth over 
the prior year.4 We were able to invest a significant 
portion of these funds to augment future growth  
via multiple exciting acquisitions. 
In global markets, we continued expanding our  
business with broad-based growth across regions. 
Total annual sales from Emerging Markets increased 
21.4 percent operational compared to 2017.2,5 We 
expect to continue to grow our presence in new 
markets and regions and to make our technologies 
accessible to more people in need.Our strategy of category leadership in key markets  
and portfolio diversification into high growth  
adjacencies is working. Our goal is to continue to 
execute against our strategic plan objectives and 
deliver top-tier sales and adjusted earnings per  
share growth over the next five years. We believe 
that the combination of long-term, consistent,  
above market revenue growth, adjusted operating 
margin expansion, targeted double-digit earnings 
per share growth, and the improved ability to deploy 
our strong free cash flow uniquely position Boston 
Scientific to continue to drive shareholder value.
SOLUTIONS THAT MATTER MOST
Our work at Boston Scientific is driven by our  
commitment to better understand unmet health 
needs and collaborate with diverse healthcare 
stakeholders to solve them, from patient education 
resources and technology breakthroughs to strategic 
investments that deepen our expertise and impact. 
Our approach to innovation includes a mix of organic 
programs, collaborations and strategic acquisitions 
that are focused on enriching our capabilities in  
the medical specialties that we serve. We believe  
that this clinical depth and category leadership  
strategy are helping us create value for patients,  
physicians and payers and enabling us to grow  
faster than our underlying markets and most peers. Expansion into New Markets
The investments we’ve made and platform  
technologies we have built enable greater agility  
to reach additional patient populations with  
critical unmet needs. We will continue to expand  
our business in exciting growth areas and expect  
that our technology development efforts and  
acquisitions have positioned us to enter new  
adjacencies that will represent approximately $20 
billion in addressable market opportunity by 2022. 
The Boston Scientific Interventional Cardiology  
business is leading the way on this front as we  
continue the global expansion of our WATCHMAN™ 
Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Technology, 
with more than 70,000 patients implanted. The 
WATCHMAN Device is designed to reduce the risk  
of stroke for patients with non-valvular atrial  
fibrillation (AF) and is now recognized in medical  
society guidelines as a therapeutic option for  
patients who need an alternative to long-term  
oral anticoagulant therapy. 
We further expanded our structural heart portfolio 
and strengthened our commitment to improving 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) patient 
outcomes through the addition of the Sentinel™ 
Cerebral Protection System, which is the only device 
cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) to protect patients against the risk of stroke 
during TAVR and has been used in nearly 10,000 
procedures. In addition, we continue to develop our  A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.5
COMPARISON OF 5-YEAR  
CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
  Boston Scientific Corporation
  S&P Health Care Equipment
  S&P 500
* $100 invested on 12/31/13 in stock or index, including  
reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending December 31. 
© 2019 Standard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global.  
All rights reserved.
 
1 Adjusted operating margin, adjusted earnings per share and their related growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impacts of certain charges (credits) which may include amortization expense, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition-related net charges and credits,  
restructuring and restructuring-related net charges and credits, litigation related net charges and credits, pension termination charges, certain debt extinguishment charges, certain investment impairment charges and/or certain discrete tax items; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 55-57.    2 Operational 
revenue growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 55-57.    4 Adjusted free cash flow and its related growth rate are non-GAAP measures that exclude the cash component of certain charges (credits) that are also excluded  
from adjusted net income as well as any cash tax benefits of such charges. In addition, we exclude tax settlements payments that relate to prior periods. The GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to adjusted free cash flow is free cash flow on a GAAP basis. Free cash flow on a GAAP basis is calculated  
by subtracting net purchases of property, plant and equipment from cash provided by operating activities; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 55-57.    5 We define Emerging Markets as including certain countries that we believe have strong growth potential based on their economic conditions, healthcare 
sectors, and our global capabilities. Currently, we include 20 countries in our definition of Emerging Markets.dual-valve TAVR strategy with the ACURATE neo™ 
valve6 — the fastest growing valve in Europe — and 
the LOTUS Edge™ Aortic Valve System7, which upon 
FDA approval will provide customers with the only 
fully repositionable valve system on the market.
In endoluminal surgery, our goal is to transform 
gastrointestinal cancer resections by developing a 
comprehensive portfolio that allows the procedures 
to be performed endoscopically. Worldwide, 2.8 
million people suffer from gastrointestinal cancers.8 
There is a tremendous opportunity for a less invasive 
endoscopic alternative to surgical resection of cancer 
or pre-cancer to enhance patient recovery, while  
also reducing length of stay, adverse events and  
cost of care. 
Strategic Acquisitions
An important part of our story in 2018 involved  
strategic investments across business units. We  
announced an agreement to acquire BTG plc, a  
leader in minimally invasive therapies targeting  
cancer and vascular diseases. Our Urology and  
Pelvic Health business expanded our women’s 
health portfolio with the addition of nVision Medical, 
offering a platform for potential earlier diagnosis 
of ovarian cancer — a condition for which there are 
currently no recommended early screening tests. 
We also invested in novel therapies for men’s health 
with Augmenix, including the SpaceOAR™ Hydrogel 
System to help reduce common and debilitating side 
effects that men may experience after receiving  prostate cancer radiotherapy, and NxThera, the  
developer of the Rezūm™ System, a minimally 
invasive treatment option for patients with benign 
prostatic hyperplasia. Adding to our Interventional 
Cardiology business, we acquired Claret Medical, and 
its Sentinel™ Cerebral Protection System, providing a 
new layer of safety and peace of mind for physicians 
and their patients undergoing TAVR procedures.  
With the acquisition of Cryterion Medical, our 
Electrophysiology business added to our portfolio a 
single-shot cryoablation platform for atrial fibrillation 
treatment, making Boston Scientific the first to offer 
physicians both cryothermal and radiofrequency  
(RF) single-shot, balloon-based ablation therapies.
PURSUIT OF EXCELLENCE
We constantly strive to improve our offerings to 
patients and healthcare systems with technology 
advancements that are supported with a strong  
body of clinical evidence. Our teams work with a 
sense of urgency and purpose to bring forward  
new solutions with quality and safety as the top 
priority. A disciplined portfolio management strategy 
guides our investment in clinical trials and research 
and development, and as we support our customers  
and champion their transition to value-based care, 
we are gaining new perspectives that help us  
innovate and improve patient outcomes." Our approach to innovation 
includes a mix of organic  
programs, collaborations  
and strategic acquisitions  
that are focused on enriching 
our capabilities in the  
medical specialties that we 
serve. We believe that this 
clinical depth and category 
leadership strategy are  
helping us create value  
for patients, physicians and 
payers and enabling us  
to grow faster than our  
underlying markets and  
most peers."  — Mike Mahoney 
  A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.6
 
 
 
 
 
6 Caution: ACURATE neo is an investigational device in the U.S. Not available for sale. CE Marked.    7 Caution: LOTUS Edge Aortic Valve System is an investigational device in the U.S. and not available for sale. CE Marked.    8 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/cancer. In men’s health we are addressing benign prostatic 
hyperplasia (BPH) treatment with Rezūm™ Water 
Vapor Therapy, a minimally invasive treatment we 
acquired via NxThera. BPH is an enlargement of the 
prostate that affects 110 million men worldwide  
and can cause problems with urinary and sexual  
function.13,14 A four-year randomized clinical trial 
recently demonstrated that patients treated with 
Rezūm Therapy experienced significant and  
sustained improvement in their symptoms and 
quality of life.
Supporting Value-Based Care
In addition to providing technologies that improve 
patient outcomes, we are focused on diagnostics, 
digital health and services that can take cost out of 
the healthcare system and improve how hospitals 
operate. 
Understanding the broader challenges healthcare 
systems face allows us to make decisions on new 
technologies and shift our portfolio mix to deliver 
technologies that will help customers meet their  
outcome and economic objectives. An example is  
our RESONATE™ family of devices, which includes 
our HeartLogic™ Heart Failure Diagnostic. Annually,  
heart failure accounts for more than 1.1 million  
hospitalizations15 with 25 percent of heart failure 
patients re-admitted within 30 days of initial hospital-
ization.16,17 The HeartLogic diagnostic tool tracks key 
physiological trends related to heart failure and was 
validated to predict heart failure events more than Firsts in Vascular Interventional Technology
Our Peripheral Interventions business launched  
the Eluvia™ Drug-Eluting Vascular Stent System,  
specifically developed for the treatment of peripheral 
artery disease (PAD). The Eluvia System is the first  
peripheral vascular interventional technology 
approved in the U.S. to offer sustained release of 
an antiproliferative drug to treat patients with PAD. 
Approximately 8.5 million people in the U.S. are  
affected by PAD, which occurs when fatty or calcified 
atherosclerotic material builds up on the walls of  
the arteries of the legs.9 
Eleven percent of patients with PAD develop critical 
limb ischemia (CLI), a chronic lack of blood supply to 
the lower legs.10,11 Research has shown that within 
one year of being diagnosed with CLI, 30 percent of 
patients will have undergone amputation. To address 
this clinical need, we began enrollment in the SAVAL 
Trial, studying the SAVAL™ Below the Knee (BTK) 
Drug-Eluting Stent System, the first stent designed to 
treat CLI. Due to the absence of effective treatment 
options for patients suffering from CLI, the FDA  
granted the Expedited Access Pathway (EAP)  
designation to the SAVAL BTK Stent System, the  
first CLI device to receive this designation.
Helping Physicians Tailor Therapy in Neuromodulation
Our Neuromodulation business recently launched 
the Vercise™ Primary Cell (PC) and Vercise Gevia™ 
Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) Systems with the 
Cartesia™ Directional Lead. The new systems feature technology designed to allow physicians to control 
the range, shape, position and direction of electrical 
stimulation to treat the symptoms of Parkinson's  
disease (PD) through highly-personalized therapy. 
More than 10 million people are living with PD,12 and 
the progression of the disease requires a therapy 
that can evolve with the patient over time. The 
INTREPID study further documented the safety and 
effectiveness of the Vercise DBS System as an  
important treatment option for patients living with 
this debilitating condition.
We also invested in research and expanded treat -
ment options for chronic pain with the Spectra 
WaveWriter™ Spinal Cord Stimulator (SCS) System, 
a potential non-opioid solution for the millions of 
people suffering from debilitating lower limb and 
back pain. Positive results from the WHISPER study 
and WaveWriter real-world outcomes study provided 
further evidence of the value of providing patients 
with multiple waveform therapies for the relief of 
chronic pain.   
Innovation in Flexible Ureteroscopy and Men’s Health
The Boston Scientific Urology and Pelvic Health  
business launched the LithoVue Empower™  
Retrieval Deployment Device. One in eleven people 
are affected by kidney stones, and the LithoVue  
Empower Device is designed to enable this procedure  
to be performed more efficiently by one clinician  
and is an example of how we are adapting our  
technology to meet clinical needs.  A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.7
 
 
9 Centers for Disease Control: https://www.cdc.gov/dhdsp/data_statistics/fact_sheets/fs_pad.htm Accessed February 2019    10 Mozaffarian D, Benjamin EJ, Go AS, et al. Heart disease and stroke statistics—2015 update: a report from the American Heart Association. Circulation . 2015 Jan 27;131(4):e29-322. Cited in 
Clarivate Analytics, Incidence and Prevalence Database.    11 Nehler MR, Duval S, Diao L, et al. Epidemiology of peripheral arterial disease and critical limb ischemia in an insured national population. J Vasc Surg . 2014 Sep;60(3):686-95.e2.    12 http://parkinson.org/Understanding-Parkinsons/Causes-and-Statistics/
Statistics    13 https://www.healthline.com/health/enlarged-prostate#symptoms    14 https://www.physiciansweekly.com/tag/benign-prostatic-hyperplasia/    15 Boehmer JP, Hariharan R, Devecchi FG, et al. A Multisensor algorithm predicts heart failure events in patients with implanted devices: results from 
the MultiSENSE study. JACC Heart Fail . 2017 Mar;5(3):216-25    16 Fonarow GC, Abraham WT, Albert NM, et al. Association between performance measures and clinical outcomes for patients hospitalized with heart failure. JAMA . 2007 Jan 3;297(1):61-70.    17 O’Connor CM, Abraham WT, Albert NM, et al. Predictors of 
mortality after discharge in patients hospitalized with heart failure: an analysis from the Organized Program to Initiate Lifesaving Treatment in Hospitalized Patients with Heart Failure (OPTIMIZE-HF). Am Heart J . 2008 Oct;156(4):662-73. faced barriers accessing quality healthcare, our Close 
the Gap teams shared data with healthcare providers 
to help them develop action plans and track progress 
in eliminating inequities among high-risk patients. 
Our health equity efforts also included community 
education and outreach to populations most affected 
by disparities in heart disease treatment, assistance 
with continuing healthcare professional education 
and advocacy for adherence to clinical guidelines to 
help ensure equitable care. 
In addition to advancing science and improving pa-
tient health and access to care, we have the privilege 
and responsibility to use our resources to enrich 
communities. Boston Scientific employees around 
the world continue to invest thousands of hours each 
year to support environmental restoration projects 
and programs to improve local schools and commu-
nities. Many of these programs are fueling the next 
generation of life science professionals by encour -
aging students to achieve in Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Math (STEM). We also recognize 
the need to ensure that the manufacturing of our 
products does not have a negative impact on the 
environment and are reducing our global environ-
mental footprint through increased use of renewable 
and cleaner energy sources. In 2018 we reduced our 
greenhouse gas emissions 47 percent and decreased 
water consumption 30 percent relative to our 2009 
measurement baseline. Our commitment to sustain-
ability and making a positive environmental impact  
is an important part of how we live by our values.four weeks in advance,15 allowing earlier intervention 
with patients and avoiding hospitalizations by  
shifting reactive treatment to proactive care.
Another area of focus is the work underway with  
our Endoscopy business to build a comprehensive  
product portfolio designed to help customers  
meet or exceed guidelines for infection prevention. 
The Exalt™ Single-Use Duodenoscope18 has the  
potential to reduce cross-contamination risk,  
minimize capital investment and reduce reprocessing 
issues and is targeted to launch by the end of 2019. 
We are also helping customers achieve and sustain 
cost, quality and growth targets with our ADVANTICS™ 
Innovative Healthcare Solutions portfolio. Examples 
include standardizing care for patients with chronic 
cardiovascular diseases and performance optimiza-
tion solutions focused on patient flow.DEEPEST COLLABORATION
Significant unmet needs for patient-centered  
innovation remain, and the biggest advances are 
made through collaboration between clinicians, 
researchers, care providers, patients, regulators 
and industry. We maintain a strong base of clinical 
evidence to support the safety and efficacy of our 
devices, with data gathered from bench testing, 
randomized controlled trials and ongoing real-world 
evidence. To meet needs for localized training and 
innovation, we have established 14 Institutes for 
Advancing Science located in the Americas, Africa, 
Asia and Europe. We also take a global approach to 
research and development at our four research and 
development design centers, with work underway to 
expand capabilities in India, Costa Rica and China. 
Health Equity & Enriching Our Communities
In 2018 we prioritized efforts to promote health 
equity and make a sustainable impact through our 
Close the Gap initiative. Our primary focus in this 
work was cardiovascular disease and treatment 
disparities among women and minority populations. 
In communities across the U.S. that have traditionally  A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.8
" In all that we accomplished over the course of the year, there 
is one common denominator that gave us a distinct edge: 
the winning spirit of our people. Our employees are the  
talented and dedicated force behind every Boston Scientific 
milestone."  — Mike Mahoney  
 
 
 
 
 
15 Boehmer JP, Hariharan R, Devecchi FG, et al. A Multisensor algorithm predicts heart failure events in patients with implanted devices: results from the MultiSENSE study. JACC Heart Fail . 2017 Mar;5(3):216-25    18 Device under development. Not available for sale or use worldwide." I think perhaps one of the 
most important metrics in  
a company beyond the  
financials is employee  
engagement. I’m very proud 
of the high engagement 
levels we have across the 
business, the extra effort our 
employees make, and the 
teamwork they demonstrate 
to deliver for patients who 
really need our solutions."  
— Mike Mahoney 
 levels we have across the business, the extra effort 
our employees make, and the teamwork they 
demonstrate to deliver for patients who really need 
our solutions. All of us at Boston Scientific understand 
that we need to continuously push ourselves to 
make a greater contribution to patients around the 
world. 
Looking ahead, I know that the community and  
culture we have built will equip us to adapt to the 
needs of the rapidly evolving healthcare landscape. 
Even after a year of so many accomplishments, I  
can say with confidence that our most meaningful 
and exciting work is yet to come.
I commend our employees for the passion they  
bring to our mission every day. On behalf of all of  
us, I want to thank our Board of Directors for their 
commitment and service to Boston Scientific.  
And I extend our sincere gratitude to you, our  
shareholders, for your continued support. I am 
fortunate to lead this incredible company and I look 
forward to all that we will accomplish in the year 
ahead.
Sincerely,
Mike Mahoney
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
March 15, 2019Our People
In all that we accomplished over the course of  
the year, there is one common denominator that 
gave us a distinct edge: the winning spirit of our 
people. Our employees are the talented and  
dedicated force behind every Boston Scientific  
milestone. Our top industry awards and rankings 
include FORTUNE World’s Most Admired Companies,  
Forbes’ Best Large Employer, Newsweek Green 
Rankings, the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index, Working Mother 100 Best Companies, NAFE Top Companies for Executive Women, and  
the Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index.
As a global company, it is important to have diverse 
perspectives and people who reflect the patients, 
customers and markets we serve. In addition to  
driving growth, this leads to greater diversity of 
thought, which fuels innovation, creates a more  
rewarding place to work and helps us attract and 
retain top talent. We announced an 18-month  
initiative to strengthen the core of our organization 
by 2020 through diversity and inclusion, including  
a goal of increasing global representation of women 
and people of color in supervisor and manager  
roles. We also launched initiatives to help us better 
understand the needs of our employees in different 
parts of the world and tailor benefits accordingly.  
Our Benefits to Fit Your Life program launched  
globally in 2018 as a comprehensive package  
designed to meet employees at various stages  
of work and life. Examples of offerings in the  
U.S. include expanded infertility treatment support, 
maternal and paternal leave, a breast milk shipping 
service, adult and child back-up care, and enhanced 
planning programs for college assistance as well as 
employees with aging parents. 
LOOKING AHEAD
I think perhaps one of the most important metrics  
in a company beyond the financials is employee  
engagement. I’m very proud of the high engagement   A MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.9
2018 SALES BY REGION  Reported Operational
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)   Sales Growth1 
  U.S.  $ 5,538 7.3%
  Europe, Middle East 
     and Africa (EMEA)† 2,176 9.0% 
  Asia-Pacific (APAC)† 1,727 7.5%
  Latin America and Canada (LACA) 383 15.8%
  $9,823 8.0%
    
2018 SALES BY PRODUCT CATEGORY  Reported Operational
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)    Sales Growth1 
MedSurg   
  Endoscopy $ 1,762 8.3%
  Urology and Pelvic Health 1,245 10.6%
Rhythm and Neuro  
  Cardiac Rhythm Management 1,951  2.1% 
  Electrophysiology 311 10.9% 
  Neuromodulation 779 22.5%
Cardiovascular  
  Interventional Cardiology 2,590 6.6% 
  Peripheral Interventions 1,187 9.2%
  $9,823 8.0%
† Effective January 1, 2018, following organizational changes to align the structure of our business with our focus on active implantable devices, we revised our reportable segments. The revision reflects a reclassification of our Neuromodulation business from our Medical Surgical (MedSurg) segment to our newly 
created Rhythm and Neuro segment, which includes Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM), Electrophysiology and Neuromodulation. In addition, we reclassified the Middle East and Africa (MEA) regions from the former AMEA region with Europe to create the new EMEA region. The new Asia-Pacific (APAC) region  
was also previously part of the former AMEA region. Prior year balances and year over year growth rates (denoted with “†”) have been revised accordingly.    1 Operational revenue growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; see non-GAAP reconciliations on  
pages 55-57.    2 Organic revenue growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the first twelve months of sales from the acquisitions of the electrophysiology business of C.R. Bard Inc., the Interventional Division of Bayer AG, the American Medical Systems  
male urology portfolio, EndoChoice Holdings, Inc., Symetis SA, NxThera, Inc., Claret Medical, Inc. and Augmenix, Inc., since there are  no prior period related net sales; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 55-57.    3 Adjusted operating margin, adjusted earnings per share and their related growth rates are  
non-GAAP measures that exclude the impacts of certain charges (credits) which may include amortization expense, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition-related net charges and credits, restructuring and restructuring-related net charges and credits, litigation related net charges and 
credits, pension termination charges, certain debt extinguishment charges, certain investment impairment charges and/or certain discrete tax items; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 55-57.  BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.10
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
OPERATIONAL   
REVENUE  
GROWTH1,2
2018:   8% 7%
2017:   8% 7%
2016:  12% 10%
  Operational revenue growth
  Organic revenue growthADJUSTED   
EARNINGS PER  
SHARE GROWTH3
2018:   17%
2017:   13%
2016:   20%
  Adjusted EPS growth from prior year  
includes $0.07 net tax benefit in 2018.
  Adjusted EPS growth from prior year,  
excluding $0.07 net tax benefit in 2018,  
increased 11% in 2018 as compared to  
the prior year.ADJUSTED   
OPERATING   
MARGIN3 
2018:  25.5%
2017:   25.0%
2016:  24.1%
024681012
16 17 180510152025
16 17 1805101520
16 17 18  BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.11
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC AT A GLANCE
Boston Scientific transforms lives through innovative medical solutions that improve the health 
of patients around the world. As a global medical technology leader for nearly 40 years, we  
advance science for life by providing a broad range of high-performance solutions that address 
unmet patient needs and reduce the cost of healthcare.
ENDOSCOPY Industry leader in minimally invasive devices for diagnosing and treating  
 gastrointestinal and pulmonary conditions
UROLOGY AND  Industry-leading solutions for urological, urogynecological and gynecological 
PELVIC HEALTH conditions 
CARDIAC RHYTHM  Groundbreaking technologies that treat irregular heart rhythms and heart 
MANAGEMENT  failure and help protect against sudden cardiac arrest 
ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY  A broad range of mapping and treatment technologies for diagnosing and 
treating heart rhythm disorders
NEUROMODULATION Electronic implantable technologies that help patients manage debilitating  
 chronic pain and neurological conditions
INTERVENTIONAL  Minimally invasive innovations that help improve the lives of patients living 
CARDIOLOGY with heart and vascular conditions 
PERIPHERAL Minimally-invasive treatments of peripheral vascular disease and cancer  
INTERVENTIONS Committed to  
carbon neutrality  
in manufacturing  
and key distribution  
sites for all products  
by 2030  BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.12
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC BY THE NUMBERS
200+   
STEM  
events
32,000+   
employees worldwide$9.8+ billion   
in salesHelped improve  
approximately
30 million  
patient livesApproximately
$1 billion  
invested in  
research and 
developmentRecycled
9,600+  
tonnes  
of solid waste$81 million+   
provided for medical  
research, educational  
and charitable giving
Named to  
the Forbes'  
list of The 
World’s Most  
Innovative  
CompaniesLaunched approximately  
100 new product innovations  
globally
Reduced greenhouse gas emissions* by  
75,000+ tonnes 
*Compared to 2009 baseline.43,000+   
employee volunteer hours
  BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.13
MEANINGFUL INNOVATION
SpyGlass™ DS Direct  
Visualization System 
The first minimally  
invasive, single-use,  
single-operator  
digital scope used for  
cholangiopancreatoscopy 
procedures designed  
to target biopsies and 
stone fragments in the  
bile, hepatic and  
pancreatic ducts.ACURATE neo™ Aortic Valve System*  
and LOTUS Edge™ Valve System** 
Complementary transcatheter aortic valve  
replacement (TAVR) devices that are designed  
to enable implanting physicians to treat the  
broadest range of patients and aortic valve  
anatomies.Spectra WaveWriter™ Spinal Cord  
Stimulator (SCS) System
Designed to provide personalized, long-lasting  
pain relief through combination therapy, novel 
sub-perception algorithms and waveform  
automation.Eluvia™ Drug-Eluting  
Vascular Stent System
The first peripheral  
vascular interventional 
technology approved in 
the U.S. to offer sustained 
release of antiproliferative 
drug to treat patients with 
peripheral artery disease.  
*The ACURATE device is an investigational device and is not available for sale in the U.S. ACURATE CE Marked.
**The LOTUS device is an investigational device and is not available for sale. CE Marked.ACURATE neo™  
Aortic Valve System*
LOTUS Edge™  
Valve System**
 
Rezu–m™ Water Vapor Therapy
A minimally invasive treatment for benign prostatic 
hyperplasia (BPH) that is typically performed in a 
physician’s office to remove excess prostate tissue 
and reduce BPH-related symptoms, such as pain 
and a frequent need to urinate. 
SpaceOAR™ Hydrogel System 
An absorbable gel that is injected prior to  
radiation therapy for prostate cancer treatment, 
which temporarily increases the space between 
the rectum and prostate, thereby reducing  
rectal radiation dose and associated side effects.WATCHMAN Left Atrial  
Appendage Closure Device
The first and only 
FDA-approved one-time 
heart implant proven  
to reduce stroke risk  
in patients with non- 
valvular atrial fibrillation 
who need an alternative 
to long-term blood 
thinners.MEANINGFUL INNOVATION MEANINGFUL INNOVATION BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.14
15.Boehmer JP, Hariharan R, Devecchi FG, et al. A Multisensor algorithm predicts heart failure events in patients with implanted devices: results from the MultiSENSE study. JACC Heart Fail . 2017 Mar;5(3):216-25.HeartLogic™ Heart  
Failure Diagnostic
The first and only heart  
failure diagnostic tool  
proven to detect 70  
percent of heart failure 
events several weeks  
in advance, potentially  
reducing further hospital-
ization for patients with 
heart failure.15 Featured  
in the Boston Scientific 
Resonate™ family of  
cardiac resynchronization 
therapy defibrillator  
(CRT-D) and implantable 
cardioverter defibrillator  
(ICD) devices.
Symbols representing  
sensors from the  
HeartLogic diagnostic tool.
A Boston Scientific employee participating in  
volunteer day near our Marlborough, Massachusetts 
headquarters.CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT BOSTON SCIENTIFIC
MANAGING CORPORATE   
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  
Our CSR Council is composed of subject matter 
experts from across the company and charged with 
defining our strategy and driving accountability  
across the organization by setting clear targets  
and measuring progress. An Executive Steering  
Committee sponsors the priorities and goals set  
by the Council and supports efforts to further  
embed responsible practices into the business. 
OUR APPROACH: MATERIALITY  
To focus our CSR efforts where we can have  
the greatest impact, we must understand the  
changing healthcare landscape, what matters  
to our stakeholders and what most affects our  
business across key markets. In 2017, we completed  
a materiality assessment to identify the CSR issues  
of greatest importance to Boston Scientific and  
our stakeholders, including employees, customers, 
investors and communities where we live and  
work. The assessment was performed in accordance 
with the internationally accredited Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) guidelines and evaluated topics related 
to our business strategy and stakeholder interests. 
The assessment identified our material aspects,  
the highest priority issues to our stakeholders for 
social, economic and environmental impact.The actions we take today  
can shape a better future  
for our patients, customers, 
employees, communities and 
the world we share. 
Our approach to corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
is based on assessments of social, environmental 
and governance issues that guide our policies and 
day-to-day practices. This work is supported by our 
cross-functional CSR Council, Environmental Health 
and Safety (EH&S) policies and programs, a Global 
Council for Inclusion as well as employee and  
community programs.
ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS
At Boston Scientific, we engage with stakeholder 
groups at the global, national and local levels to 
inform our corporate responsibility strategy. This  
engagement occurs at all levels of the organization, 
from employees at our manufacturing sites and 
research facilities to senior management in our 
divisions and Executive Committee leaders. We 
value the opportunity to learn about the concerns 
and priorities of the communities and stakeholder 
groups we serve as we work to anticipate and better 
understand emerging environmental, social and 
governance topics. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT BOSTON SCIENTIFIC BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.15In 2018, we aligned the outcomes of this assessment 
to the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), which address key global challenges 
to create a better and more sustainable future for 
everyone. Though the United Nation’s 17 SDGs are 
interconnected, our material aspects align to 10  
goals where we believe we can make the most 
meaningful contributions to critical issues. A focus  
on positively influencing these goals will continue  
to guide our CSR programs in 2019 and beyond.
OUR CSR PERFORMANCE
We hold ourselves accountable for providing updates 
and data related to our corporate social responsibility 
performance, and we share this information through 
several communication channels, including this  
report. Each year, we report the company’s impact on 
the environment as defined by the Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP), and we actively participate in several 
important environment, social and governance  
rating surveys. 
This report has been prepared by referencing the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Data in 
this report covers the period between January 1, 2018 
and December 31, 2018, unless otherwise indicated.Boston Scientific Supports the SDGs
Our Planet
 Climate Change
 Environmental ImpactOur People
  Diversity and Inclusion
  Culture and Career
  Community
   Stakeholder EngagementOur Practices
 Innovative Products
 Governance and Ethics
 Compliance
 Sustainable Supply ChainOf the seventeen United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), our material aspects align with ten, which will 
continue to guide our corporate social responsibility programs 
in 2019 and beyond. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT BOSTON SCIENTIFIC BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.16
  BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.17
OUR PLANET OUR PLANET BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.18
In all established operations and distribution  
locations, we proactively pursue environmental  
standards that deliver exceptional ISO14001:2015  
performance. During the 2018 audit cycle, we 
achieved zero non-conformances globally.  
We also received zero regulatory environmental 
noncompliance notices or fines.
Our Global Energy Management System (GEMS),  
developed in collaboration with the National  
University of Ireland, Galway, helps ensure that  
we meet our energy reduction commitment globally. 
Using the C3 strategy (Cut, Convert, Compensate), 
GEMS focuses on cutting energy use, converting  
to renewable energy sources instead of fossil fuels 
and compensating with carbon offset projects  
where needed. 
Across our global manufacturing and distribution 
locations, we have established the following targets 
and are continually monitoring progress through 
GEMS:
  50% renewable electricity by 2021
  100% renewable electricity by 2024 
  90% renewable energy (all sources) by 2027 
  Carbon neutral by 2030 
As a global medical device 
manufacturer, we understand 
that our planet is facing  
challenges that affect the 
well-being of patients,  
customers, employees,  
communities and investors.  
By proactively addressing  
energy consumption, carbon 
output, waste management 
and water use, we are  
making measurable progress 
toward shaping a better  
future for our planet.
Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy  
outlines our high standards as we pursue  
environmental excellence. We take a global  
approach to prioritizing, executing and monitoring 
efforts to achieve EHS goals and measure progress  
to deliver sustainable development. The newest Boston Scientific  
manufacturing site in Penang,  
Malaysia, was granted LEED Silver  
certification in 2018.CARING FOR OUR PLANET
Boston Scientific has 13 
LEED-certified buildings 
around the globe.  OUR PLANET BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.19
KPI DEFINITION
Carbon  Total amount of Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse 
Footprint gas emissions emitted into the atmosphere from  
(MT CO2eq) manufacturing and distribution sites. Measured  
 in tonnes of carbon equivalent.
Energy Use  Total energy Boston Scientific consumes annually 
(kWh) to manufacture our products.  
 
  
EM3  An energy management maturity model to establish 
(% change  where in the “energy journey” each manufacturing 
in score)  site resides on a scale from 1 to 5 (Minimal >  
Emerging > Developing > Advancing > Leading)
Green Real  Percentage of Boston Scientific real estate that is 
Estate independently certified for energy efficiency by 
(% of total) industry-leading programs such as LEED for design  
 and Energy Star or ISO50001 for building operations.
Renewable  Percentage of total energy consumed, generated 
Energy from renewable energy sources, with Boston Scientific  
(% of total) owning the renewable attributes.   
  
Cleaner Energy Energy produced from fossil fuels, but based on  
(% of total) high-efficiency technologies such as combined heat  
 and power (CHP) in comparison to conventional  
 power generation.  The GEMS methodology is implemented through our global energy team, including representatives from each of our manufacturing and key distribution sites.  
Our performance is continually measured through our GEMS key performance indicators (KPIs):  
2015
118,327
370,083,323
 
 
2.7
 
 
 
27%
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
6%2016
108,694 
367,102,517
 
 
3.2
 
 
 
28%
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
7%2017
94,946
363,684,542*
 
 
3.6
 
 
 
32%
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
9%*2018
85,127
  352M
  3.7   37%   5%   9%
*2017 kilowatt hour figures corrected due to conversion factor error for diesel fuel use.CLIMATE CHANGE
Striving for Carbon Neutrality
As a medical device manufacturer with facilities and  
employees around the world, we recognize we have 
an important role in addressing climate change. Our 
commitment is to achieve carbon neutrality across  
Boston Scientific manufacturing and key distribution 
sites by 2030. Carbon neutrality means achieving 
net zero carbon emissions associated with manufac -
turing operations and energy use by balancing the 
amount of carbon released with an equal amount  
removed or compensated. As increased levels of 
carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in 
our atmosphere are closely tied to climate change, 
achieving carbon neutrality will greatly reduce our 
contribution to this pressing global issue. Leading in Energy Certification
A critical part of our sustainability effort includes 
ongoing improvement of existing facilities  
and development of new construction in an  
environmentally responsible manner. 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 
(LEED) is an internationally recognized certification 
program for the environmental performance and 
sustainable design of buildings. Boston Scientific 
now has 13 LEED-certified buildings around the  
globe (37 percent of total) – including our newest 
manufacturing site in Penang, Malaysia, which was 
granted LEED Silver certification in March 2018. 
Our two sites in Costa Rica, Coyol and Heredia,  
have both received ISO 50001:2011 Energy  
Management System certification. ISO 50001 is  
an energy management system standard that  
provides a framework for all aspects of energy,  
including procurement and use. In 2018, our  
distribution center in Kerkrade, Netherlands,  
received a third star from Lean and Green, Europe’s 
leading program for sustainable logistics. We are  
one of only six companies in Europe to receive this 
highest-level award for carbon output reduction.
In total, Boston Scientific operates nearly 3.3 million  
square feet of independently certified Green Real 
Estate that supports our energy efficiency and  
sustainability goals, representing 37 percent of  
our global footprint. OUR PLANET BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.20
We have committed to 
achieving carbon neutrality  
in all of our manufacturing 
and key distribution sites  
by 2030.  LEEDing Locations
 United States:
 A Maple Grove, Minnesota LEED Silver 
   LEED Certified 
 B Marlborough, Massachusetts  LEED Gold  
LEED Certified
 C Quincy, Massachusetts LEED Silver  
   LEED Certified
Central America:
 D Coyol, Costa Rica LEED Silver  
   ISO 50001  
 E Heredia, Costa Rica ISO 50001
Europe:
 F Kerkrade, Netherlands LEED Silver  
   Lean and Green
Asia:
 G Penang, Malaysia LEED Silver
 H Singapore LEED Silver
 I Beijing, China LEED Silver 
   LEED Certified
 J Shanghai, China LEED SilverA
BC
DEF
G
HI
JInvesting in Energy Efficiency
Increased use of renewable energy is another way 
that we are reducing GHG emissions. Two Boston 
Scientific locations in Massachusetts each have solar 
installments: our Marlborough headquarters site 
generates 31 percent of its required electricity and 
the Quincy distribution center generates 26 percent  
of its required electricity, resulting in cumulative savings  
of about 1,000 tonnes of GHG emissions. In June 
2018, our facility in Dorado, Puerto Rico, joined a 
Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) to purchase  
electricity generated from solar panels to be installed 
on-site. 
We are making progress toward our goal of purchasing 
100 percent renewable energy by 2024 by purchasing  
only renewable electricity for our three sites in Ireland,  
installing on-site solar at certain facilities and pursuing 
a virtual power purchase agreement for renewable 
electricity for our U.S. energy needs. We will continue 
to implement a combination of on-site and off-site 
projects to achieve our renewable energy goals. 
Renewable electricity accounted for 5 percent of  
our energy purchased globally in 2018. 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
As a company with a global footprint and global 
impact, we have a responsibility to manage how  
we consume resources and reduce waste. We  
carefully measure waste generation and water use 
at our major manufacturing and distribution facilities 
using ISO 14001:2015, a globally recognized standard CorkIRELANDfor environmental management systems (EMS). The 
system ensures that throughout our operations we 
respond to changing environmental conditions, meet 
compliance obligations, enhance environmental  
performance and deliver sustainable development. 
As of 2018, 15 of our sites achieved third-party  
certifications to this standard.
Reducing Waste
We approach waste-reduction systematically, 
through the adoption of international best practices 
and research-backed protocols. In 2017, we met  
our ambitious goal to achieve a recycling index of  
81 percent for solid waste generated by our major 
manufacturing and distribution facilities. Striving to 
do even better, we further improved our recycling  
index and achieved 83 percent in 2018. Of the 
remaining non-recycled solid waste, we divert the 
majority away from landfills. OUR PLANET BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.21
Sustainability at our Ireland Facilities
Beginning in October of 2018, the three Boston  
Scientific manufacturing sites in Ireland, located in 
Galway, Cork and Clonmel, began purchasing certified 
100 percent renewable electricity. This represents 
12 percent of our total purchased electricity and 
delivers a 9 percent overall reduction in carbon 
emissions.
In November 2018, Boston Scientific joined other  
businesses in Ireland and signed the Business in  
The Community (BITC) Low Carbon Pledge.  
These companies pledge to reduce scope 1 and  
scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity  
50 percent by 2030. Scope 1 GHGs are those  
produced by Boston Scientific facilities directly,  
and scope 2 GHGs are those generated by the  
purchased electricity we consume. We plan to  
surpass this goal with our carbon neutrality pledge.GOAL SET IN 2009:
35% reduction in  
greenhouse gas (GHG)  
emissions* by 2019.
2018 RESULT:
47%   reduction 
(75,711 tonnes)**
*Using market-based emissions calculations.
**Compared to the 2009 manufacturing operations baseline.Galway
ClonmelConserving Water
While Boston Scientific operations are not water- 
intensive, we understand the importance of water 
as a shared resource. We strive to minimize our 
consumption and plan for environmental challenges 
such as water scarcity. In 2018, we further decreased 
water usage by 5 percent, representing a total  
reduction of more than 30 percent since 2009.
RECOGNITIONS FOR   
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP
  Received a Third Star for our facility in Kerkrade, 
Netherlands, from Lean & Green, Europe’s leading 
program for sustainable logistics
  Confirmed a FTSE4Good Index Series constituent, 
designed to measure the performance of  
companies demonstrating strong Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) practices
  Awarded the Ecological Blue Flag Award with five 
stars by the Costa Rican government, the highest 
ranking in the climate change category    OUR PLANET BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.22
Recognition for Solid Waste Reduction Achievement
In April 2018, the Boston Scientific site in Maple 
Grove, Minnesota, received the Chelsea Santucci 
Greenovation Award from Kimberly-Clark  
Professional for diverting 39,920 pounds of waste 
from landfills. We participate in The RightCycle 
Program, the first large-scale recycling program 
for non-hazardous lab, cleanroom and industrial 
waste. RightCycle is designed to help pharmaceutical 
companies, research laboratories and manufacturing 
facilities reduce solid waste streams by recycling  
nontraditional waste such as garments, gloves, 
hoods, boot covers, masks and safety eyewear.  
Participants in the program have diverted more  
than 600 tons of waste from landfills since 2011.
Above: Boston Scientific employees in Maple Grove, 
Minnesota, commemorate Earth Day 2018 with their 
award.2018 ACHIEVEMENTS:
83%  increase* in  
solid waste recycle index,  
or 9,660+ tonnes.
30%  water use  
reduction*...equal to  
301,571 cubic meters.
1,332 tonnes  
of non-recycled solid waste 
was diverted away from 
landfills, achieving 95% 
avoidance.
*Compared to 2009 baseline.
The blue flag at the Coyol, Costa Rica office symbolizes 
our commitment to sustainability. OUR PLANET BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.23
Beach Clean-up in Costa Rica
In Coyol, Costa Rica, more than 100 Boston  
Scientific employees, and their families and friends, 
gathered at Guacalillo Beach for a clean-up initiative 
in April 2018. The event was organized in conjunction 
with the local community, government, Red Cross 
organization and local foundations, Operation  
Rich Coast and Algo por la Tierra. This effort resulted  
in the collection of approximately one ton of 
waste and litter, including more than 70 used car 
tires. This demonstration in caring for our planet is 
an important reminder of why we strive to meet  
ambitious waste reduction and recycling goals.River Stewardship in California
In Valencia, California, Boston Scientific employee 
volunteers partnered with the Community Hiking 
Club, the California Wilderness Coalition and outdoor 
retail co-op REI to clean along Piru Creek, a part of 
the protected National Wild & Scenic Rivers System. 
During October 2018, volunteers worked to help 
preserve the habitat by removing impediments 
to endangered migrating fish and collecting more 
than 500 pounds of trash.GREEN TEAM ENVIRONMENTAL   
SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
Our employee-led Green Teams present new ideas 
and implement projects that reduce the company’s 
environmental footprint globally, improve the  
communities in which we do business and  
strengthen our business practices. In 2018, we 
worked with many community partners to make  
a positive impact and raise environmental  
awareness.
Keeping our Planet Clean
Beyond maintaining our facilities, our employees 
around the globe participated in efforts to preserve 
beaches and habitats in surrounding communities, 
helping to ensure that local ecosystems remain  
intact as wildlife habitats and for future generations 
to enjoy.BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.24
OUR PEOPLE OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.25
At Boston Scientific, our work has purpose – it results in lives 
changed, and lives saved. Together, our employees strive  
to solve healthcare challenges that matter most, with an  
unwavering focus on the needs of patients, physicians and 
healthcare systems. Our team of more than 32,000 employees 
around the globe are collaborators, explorers and problem- 
solvers, united by a focus on advancing science for life. 
We understand that choosing the right place to  
work is an important decision, and that people join 
companies to find meaningful purpose and a place 
to grow. We recognize that the aspirations and goals 
of each employee are personal. Boston Scientific 
global talent management practices support a  
workplace where individuals can:
  Build a career with global impact — truly make  
a difference to people both around the world  
and around the corner
  Be empowered with opportunities to grow —  
thrive in a culture that prioritizes learning,  
development and progression 
  Meaningfully contribute in a collaborative  
environment — build lasting relationships with 
colleagues and global thought leaders
  Embrace a culture with “winning spirit”  — be  
part of a culture that takes measured risks  
and challenges the status quo   Be rewarded — enjoy a workplace that recognizes 
success and rewards individual and team  
performance 
  Choose from diverse career options — explore  
careers that suit varying backgrounds and  
ambitions 
  Experience mobility with global opportunities — 
expand personal reach and contribute to business 
imperatives through international assignments 
and programs 
The talent of our teams and individuals creates a 
competitive advantage for the company. That’s  
why we work hard to attract diverse talent, enable  
a culture of engagement and inclusion and enhance 
our organizational capabilities to build the workforce 
of the future. 
The Boston Scientific Women’s Network worked 
with the Girls on the Run organization to help 
young girls develop essential skills to establish  
a lifetime of health and fitness.OUR PEOPLE OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.26
ACCELERATING DIVERSITY   
AND INCLUSION
At Boston Scientific, our diversity value stands for 
inclusion, equality and opportunity for all, and guides 
our work to advance science and improve patient 
health. By embracing unique backgrounds and  
perspectives, we create a more rewarding place to 
work that better reflects the patients, customers and 
communities we serve. 
Our Diversity and Inclusion efforts are focused on 
four strategic pillars:  
 Career 
 Culture 
 Commerce  
 Community
ATTRACTING AND ENGAGING   
DIVERSE TALENT
In 2018, we launched “10/20/40 by 2020” goals to 
accelerate our diversity and inclusion efforts. These 
goals are aimed at reshaping the company’s core 
mid-level employee base to move beyond traditional  
diversity recruiting efforts that tend to target the 
entry-level pipeline or focus on top-down change. 
Transparent reporting is an important part of how  
we hold ourselves accountable. By the end of 2018,  
we achieved the following progress toward our 
goals:
By 2020, our goals are to: OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.27
Women
Global46.5% 
45.5 %2017 |2018
People of Color
U.S./Puerto Rico31.7% 
30.7 %2017 |2018All Levels
38.4%
37.4%
Supervisors &
Managers429.5%
27.3%
Senior Management318.8 %
12.5 %
Executive Officers230.0 %
30.0 %
Board of Directors2017 |2018By level
17.8%19.6%
Supervisors &
Managers11.5 %13.1%
Senior Management2017 |2018By level
17.8%19.6%
Supervisors &
Managers11.5 %13.1%
Senior Management2017 |2018By level
17.8%19.6%
Supervisors &
Managers11.5 %13.1%
Senior Management2017 |2018By level44.3%43.6 %
56.2%
50.5%
45.5%
40.6 %57.7%
43.6 %
45.5%
43.3%US/PR
Latin America
Canada
Europe, Middle
East & Africa
Asia Pacific2017 |2018By region
American Indian /
Alaskan
Asian
Black /
African American
Hispanic / Latino
Multiracial
Native Hawaiian /
Other Pacific Islander13.7%
13.4%
5.1%
10.1%
9.5%
1.2%
0.3%1.6%
0.3%6.5%0.3%
0.3%2017 |2018By ethnic groupRepresentation of Women Around the Globe1
Representation of People of Color in the U.S. and Puerto Rico5
*Based on individuals' voluntary self-identification    1 Gender: Gender information is collected uniformly for global reporting purposes.    2 Executive Officers includes all executive committee members listed in the company's Annual Report.    3  Senior Management includes all levels that are 
director, vice president, senior vice president, executive vice president and CEO    4 Supervisors and Managers includes all levels that are supervisor, manager I and manager II.    5 People of Color (PoC): Each country has specific requirements and legal considerations regarding how PoC data can be 
used and reported. Our reporting focuses on our US/PR PoC populations as it is uniform in definition, reporting and use.THE PEOPLE OF BOSTON SCIENTIFIC* OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.28
LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT
Fostering a more inclusive environment starts at the 
top. Chairman and CEO Mike Mahoney, along with 
chief executives of the world’s leading companies, 
are part of the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion 
Pledge , the largest CEO-driven business commitment  
to advance workplace diversity and inclusion. Since 
signing the pledge in 2017, Boston Scientific and  
other participating companies have shared best 
practices for creating a work environment where 
complex and sometimes difficult conversations 
about diversity and inclusion can occur, including 
holding a Day of Understanding to provide a forum 
for employees to engage in meaningful dialogue  
on inclusion barriers. 
To achieve our 10/20/40 goals, each business,  
regional and functional leadership team has  
established plans to increase representation of  women, people of color and globalization within 
their organizations. Examples of plan initiatives  
include mandatory consideration of a diverse  
slate of qualified candidates for all manager and 
above roles, required unconscious bias training  
for all those who manage people and programs  
that promote diversity awareness and inclusive  
competency skills. Additionally, we audit key  
talent management practices such as interview 
questions and high-potential leadership program  
requirements to ensure support of an inclusive 
culture.
Collaborating for Change
We proudly partner with leading organizations  
that promote and support the development of  
women, people of color, people with disabilities  
and LGBTQ talent. In the United States, these  
partnerships include Advancing Minorities’ Interests  in Engineering, Disability:IN, Hiring Our Heroes,  
the Human Rights Campaign, the National Society  
of Black Engineers, National Action Council for  
Minorities in Engineering, reacHIRE, the Society  
of Hispanic Professional Engineers and the Society  
of Women Engineers, among others. 
We are building similar collaborations in other  
parts of the world. In 2018, we hosted 100 members 
of the Japan Women’s Innovative Network (J-Win) 
organization at our corporate headquarters as part 
of the organization’s Annual Overseas Study Tour. 
During their visit, J-WIN members learned more 
about the medical device industry and participated  
in an interactive career experience session with  
Boston Scientific leaders. 
As a founding member of Disability:IN’s Inclusion 
Works Program (formerly Going for the Gold), we 
are advancing programs to support the hiring and 
inclusion of people with disabilities. Through this 
collaboration, we conducted disability awareness 
training globally, increased understanding and  
adoption of the reasonable accommodations  
process and expanded the availability of on-site  
resources. Also in 2018, our fulfillment center in  
Quincy, Massachusetts, launched a program to  
assist people with disabilities seeking customer  
service and distribution center employment.  
Boston Scientific has been recognized for three  
consecutive years as a Disability Equality Index®  
(DEI) Best Place to Work. 
In 2018, our Europe, Middle East and Africa region established a regional D&I Council that includes D&I champions 
who set regional goals and address the needs of employees located across 35 countries and three continents.51.2 %
50.5%
Women
Global2017 |2018
42.6%
40.7%
People of Color
U.S./Puerto Rico2017 |2018Boston Scientific New Hires OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.29
Targeted development/retention programs 
We continue to increase focus on developing  
women and people of color through specific  
development initiatives that include executive  
sponsorship, deliberate job movement and  
leadership development programs. One example  
of this work is the Boston Scientific EXCELerate  
program, a multi-year sponsorship focused on  
the career development of female talent in a  
range of technical fields, including R&D,  
manufacturing, supply chain, clinical, quality,  
information technology, global business systems  
and security. In 2018, 93 women from seven  
countries participated in the program and  
were matched with Boston Scientific executive  
sponsors who serve as advisors, mentors and  
career advocates.In addition, our Women’s Network Employee  
Resource Group chapters across local markets  
support the personal and professional development 
of women through formal mentoring programs. 
These programs are designed to help participants 
develop leadership skills, set realistic career goals  
and plans to achieve them, while expanding their 
network within Boston Scientific. For instance, our 
Women’s Network chapter in Japan held its annual 
PRISM congress in 2018 with all female employees 
and their managers. The event focused on the state 
of diversity and inclusion in Japan and how to further 
address cultural barriers that impact the representa-
tion of women in sales and leadership positions. 
LISTENING TO SUPPORT   
AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE
Our best ideas come from our people, including  
how to continuously improve our workplace  
and culture to attract and retain top talent.  
Employee Surveys 
We regularly conduct a global Employee  
Engagement survey to better understand our  
cultural and organizational strengths and areas  
for improvement. Results from the latest global 
survey include an overall engagement score of 79 
percent, positioning Boston Scientific eight points 
above the global benchmark for high performing 
companies across industries.* The company also  
exceeded the global high performing norm in four 
out of the five benchmarked categories (engagement,  
* Source: Corporate Executive Boardimmediate manager, senior leadership, talent and 
performance management and total rewards). 
Leaders, working with employees, reviewed these 
results to create measurable multi-year action plans 
to refine and improve on results at the corporate  
and local level.
We also conducted a 2018 qualitative study with a 
global cross-representation of employees to better 
understand engagement differences in employee 
perceptions of career development opportunities. 
As a result of this effort, as well as best-practice 
benchmarking, we expanded manager skill-building 
programs and drove greater transparency of our 
diversity data, initiatives and goals. Several of these 
initiatives were launched in 2018 and will continue 
into the next year and beyond.
Self-ID Survey
As a U.S. federal contractor doing business with  
the U.S. government, Boston Scientific is required 
to regularly survey employees about their disability 
status. In response to employee feedback, our  
2018 survey included questions related to self- 
identification in the categories of military, gender, 
LGBTQ and ethnicity/race. Nearly 30 percent of  
the company’s U.S. and Puerto Rico employee  
population completed the questionnaire. OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.30
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) help create thriving 
communities for our diverse employees to connect and  
succeed, while impacting communities around the world.  
Here are a few examples of their achievements in 2018:
Bridge to the Future
The Valencia, California, BRIDGE 
chapter hosts an annual Bridge  
to the Future program that helps  
introduce students of color to  
STEM education. The nine-month 
experience for 10th through  
12th graders includes sessions  
such as this one focused on  
programming, coding and  
robotics and professional skills.  
In April 2018, BRIDGE hosted  
their seventh graduation,  
celebrating the growth and  
development of 27 students.New ERGs in Ireland
Our Clonmel, Cork and Galway  
sites in Ireland coordinated the 
launch of three new LEAD  
chapters in 2018, while also  
coordinating site-specific  
disability inclusion training.  
The sites collaborated to  
develop programs dedicated  
to supporting people with  
disabilities in the workplace.Operation Gratitude
In 2018, our VETS chapters  
collaborated with Operation  
Gratitude to collect more than  
700 pounds of requested  
supplies across Boston Scientific 
locations. Operation Gratitude  
supports U.S. troops and their  
families by sending care  
packages to all who bravely  
serve and delivering items  
needed by their families  
at home. EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Our ERGs are at the heart of our culture of diversity,  
collaborating across the business at all levels to 
promote awareness in a wide range of areas. When 
people join and contribute to these groups, they  
take on valuable new experiences and opportunities 
to handle new responsibilities. 
More than 4,400   
Boston Scientific employees 
are active in 9 ERGs with 85 
chapters around the world: 
   BRIDGE: Developing a Community of Black 
Leaders
  HOLA: Hispanic Organization for Leadership 
and Achievement
  LEAD: Leadership, Education and Allies for  
Disabilities
  PACE: People Accepting and Celebrating  
Equality
  PEARL: Pacific East Asian Resources in  
Leadership
  SAIL: South Asians in Leadership
  VETS: Veterans & Employees Together in  
Service (Military)
  Women’s Network: Promoting Professional  
Development of Women
  YPN: Young Professionals Network OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.31
Global Council for Inclusion 
Our leaders are important role models for driving 
change. The Boston Scientific Global Council for 
Inclusion guides the implementation of our D&I  
strategies. The council is chaired by Chief Financial  
Officer Dan Brennan and its members include  
Chairman and CEO Mike Mahoney, the Executive 
Committee, our global D&I team and all global  
ERG leaders. The council meets quarterly to assess  
diversity and inclusion progress and engage in 
candid conversations on issues that our employee 
groups may be facing. Each of our nine ERGs are  
also sponsored by an Executive Committee member. 
Recognizing that our businesses, functions and  
regions experience D&I challenges differently,  
we have also established local inclusion councils  
to support these unique opportunities. 
SETTING THE BAR HIGHER  
Boston Scientific participates in several external 
benchmark index surveys that enable us to  
compare and assess our progress and practices  
for continued improvement. With a D&I goal  
focused on achieving Top 10 workplace inclusion 
leadership in key focus areas (women, people of 
color, disabilities and LGBTQ), we are committed  
to driving practices that promote an inclusive  
culture and enable us to be an employer of  
choice for globally diverse talent. We are proud  
to have been recognized by the following  
organizations in 2018 for our work:2018 Awards
   LATINA Style’s 50 Best Companies for  
Latinas (2015-2018)
     Disability Equality Index (DEI) (2016 - 2018)
   Fatherly Top 50 Places to Work for New  
Dads (2018)
     Forbes list of Best Employers for Women 
(2018)
     Forbes list of Best Employers for Diversity 
(2018)
     Glassdoor Employees' Choice Best Places  
to Work (2018)
     Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCU) Top Supporter (2016-2018)
     Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate  
Equality Index (2015–2018)
     Leading Diversity Best Practices Inclusion 
Index Organization (2018)
  National Association for Female Executives 
Top Companies for Executive Women (2018)
   Working Mother "100 Best Companies"  
(2017-2018)Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
Boston Scientific has been, and will continue to  
be, an equal opportunity employer. To ensure  
full implementation of the company’s equal  
employment policy, we continue to work to ensure 
that recruitment, hiring, assignment, promotion, 
compensation and all other personnel decisions  
are made and administered without regard to  
race, religion, color, national origin, citizenship,  
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender  
expression, veteran’s status, age, mental or  
physical disability, genetic information or any  
other protected class. We draw strength from  
the unique talents and abilities inherent in a  
diverse workforce and we believe that the best  
and most innovative products come from an  
inclusive workplace where varied viewpoints  
are welcomed and encouraged. We also have  
a strict policy against harassment that is  
reinforced through training and other ongoing  
communication. OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.32
EMPLOYEE GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
Growing and developing our people is essential  
to growing our company. Employees at every  
level have access to a variety of programs, training 
and tools to advance their skills and career so  
they can meaningfully contribute to our mission  
of transforming lives.  
Coaching and Development 
Creating an environment where coaching and  
development are valued and prioritized will  
accelerate our company performance. To ensure  
the growth and success of our leaders as coaches, 
we have invested in tools and training to support 
their continued development and expand measures  
for accountability, including: 
   Management Development Program (MDP):  
The MDP features tools and coaching for our 
employees who manage people. The mandatory 
18-month curriculum focuses on enhancing  
skills ranging from hiring talent to managing  
performance, unconscious bias training and  
situational leadership. Upon completion, leaders 
are provided with several tools and resources  
that help put this training into practice. In 2018, 
more than 2,000 managers globally completed 
more than 6,000 MDP sessions.
  Employee feedback: To provide leaders valuable 
feedback on their coaching performance from 
those who interact with them most in this role — 
their employees — we provide a number of tools 
to help initiate dialogue and inform our leaders’ 
individual development plans. These tools include employee input on annual performance reviews, 
360-degree surveys and an employee leadership 
assessment survey – SPARK – that gives employees 
an opportunity to rate their manager’s performance  
against the behaviors that define a people leader 
at Boston Scientific.
Empowering Leaders of Today and Tomorrow
Boston Scientific offers learning and development 
programs that help employees achieve their unique 
career goals and aspirations. These programs range 
from on-the-job training and skills-based learning to 
focused leadership programs aimed at accelerating 
the growth and development of our talent who have 
the potential to hold leadership roles in our business 
in the future. In addition to offering more than 150 professional and technical skills courses to all global 
employees each year, we also offer several specific 
leadership development programs:
   Building Managerial Potential (BMP): The BMP is 
for employees who nominate themselves to build 
the skills they need to prepare for management 
roles. Since its launch in 2016, approximately 500 
employees have graduated from the program, 
including more than 200 in 2018.
   Advanced Manager Development Program 
(AMDP): The AMDP helps middle managers with 
several years of experience strengthen key compe-
tencies such as strategic thinking, communication 
and managing across cultures. In 2018, 91  
managers participated in the program; more  
than 500 have completed the course since 2016.
 OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.33
   Leadership Development Program (LDP): Director- 
level and above employees are nominated to 
participate in LDP to prepare for their next level of 
growth by enhancing skills in personal and team 
leadership through interactive sessions and busi-
ness simulation, while providing opportunities for 
networking and interaction with global peers and 
senior leaders. In 2018, the LDP had 62 participants 
from 13 countries. More than 490 leaders have  
participated since the first offering in 2013. 
   Accelerated Leadership Development Program 
(ALDP): Senior leaders act as facilitators for ALDP, 
which is designed to accelerate the readiness 
of high potentials and key successors to take on 
more complex roles in the organization. A series 
of one-week classroom sessions provides simula-
tions, case studies and networking opportunities 
with peers across the company and members of 
the Executive Committee. During the sessions, 
each participant is assigned a coach to support 
continued feedback and development. Nearly 330 
leaders have completed the program since its 
inception in 2010, with 27 participants in 2018. Leadership Development Within Regions and  
Across Cultures 
Boston Scientific has also created targeted leadership 
development programs to complement corporate 
programs and support the development of talent 
across the organization. Some examples of regional 
development programs include:
   Through a combination of challenging interna-
tional work experiences and business projects, 
the Asia Pacific Global Leadership Development 
Program (GLDP) is a tailored program that aims  
to systematically develop talented, diverse and 
global leaders who are capable of leading the 
organization into the future. 
   In Latin America, regional leadership development 
programs are facilitated by senior leaders and 
program alumni to support the development of 
competencies and capabilities that address the 
region’s unique health ecosystem and emerging 
market challenges. 
  The Europe, Middle East and Africa region’s  
Key Talent Program provides high potential  
senior managers and directors with opportunities,  
experiences and leadership exposure to accelerate 
their development and deepen the region’s  
leadership pipeline.
Cross Cultural Learning
As a global company operating around the world, 
employees have an opportunity to interact routinely 
with peers, customers and patients from a variety 
of cultures and countries. To support cross-cultural 
learning and awareness among all employees, the 
company offers a portfolio of on-demand training 
and resources.COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
We are committed to delivering compensation and 
benefit programs that support overall well-being  
and health, while providing flexibility to meet our 
employees’ unique needs and expectations. We  
embrace our multigenerational workforce, with  
programs that go beyond best-practice and focus  
on best-fit. 
Equal Pay for Equal Work
Paying our employees equally for equal work is 
consistent with our values and is at the heart of 
our global compensation practices. Our approach 
to monitoring and maintaining pay equity includes 
regularly benchmarking global salaries, conducting 
rigorous internal and external parity audits and  
reviewing pay recommendations across the company 
as part of our annual compensation process. 
Boston Scientific works with an independent, third 
party to annually assess pay equity across global 
salaried and sales populations. In 2018, we expanded 
our focus to include hourly employees. We check  
for pay equality using regression analysis — an 
approach to analyzing data that controls for variables 
that appropriately influence pay such as job, tenure, 
years of experience and location. We then look for 
differences in pay between genders and, in the  
U.S. and Puerto Rico, individuals of different races/
ethnicities.More than 2,000   
people leaders around the 
globe completed over  
6,000 MDP sessions.2018 ACHIEVEMENT: OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.34
Consistent with our previously published findings, our 
2018 analyses found less than a 1 percent statistical 
difference in pay along gender lines for our global 
salaried, hourly and sales employees. For hourly  
employees, we identified less than a 1.1 percent  
statistical difference for race/ethnicity in the U.S.  
and Puerto Rico*, and no disparities for salaried  
and sales employees. In the few instances where  
we identified a gender disparity — which occurred  
in positions involving both men and women —  
we examined the circumstances and acted to  
increase pay where appropriate.
We will continue to evolve our practices to maintain 
and improve on our results. For example, to further 
reduce potential for biases in our hiring practices, 
in 2018, we prohibited the request of salary history 
from all U.S. job applicants. The range of our jobs are 
based on the skill set, experience required and what 
the market demands, not on what candidates have 
earned before. We are evaluating similar hiring  practices for global locations in concert with local 
laws and regulations. Analysis and reporting of  
pay equity results are completed annually. 
Benefits
Good health, financial wellness and security are  
critical to a productive workforce. We support a  
culture of health by providing comprehensive  
benefits to our employees. 
The following principles govern our benefit plans  
on a global basis:
   Enable High Performing Talent — As part of a 
broader rewards portfolio, we offer market  
competitive benefits that are flexible and  
affordable to meet the individual needs of  
our increasingly diverse talent base
  Support Life/Work Integration — We strive to  
offer programs that acknowledge, respect and 
support an individual’s life and work choices
Sales100 %
Hourly99.5%
Salaried99.9%2018 Gender Globally
Sales100 % 100 %  
Hourly98.9 %
Salaried 2018 Race / Ethnicity: U.S. / Puerto Rico   Promote Well-being — Our holistic programs  
are intended to support and encourage physical,  
emotional, financial and social well-being.  
Empowering employee well-being leads to  
improved performance for the individual and  
the organization
   Value and Cultural Fit — We strive to offer benefits 
that are valued by our employees, differentiated  
by our culture when appropriate, and supportive  
of an inclusive work environment
   Communication and Tools — We aim to  
communicate in a manner that makes our  
plans easy to understand and use, and enables 
employees to take action to achieve well-being. 
For a comprehensive look at Boston Scientific  
benefits package, please visit: https://secure.  
bscbenefitsconnect.com/home/index.html
Global Sabbaticals Policy
In 2018, Boston Scientific began offering sabbaticals 
to employees with more than seven years of service 
to recognize their tenure and enable a planned  
time of renewal for development or enrichment.  
For those countries where national laws mandate 
that companies allow employees to apply for a 
sabbatical leave with less than seven years of service, 
the local tenure threshold is used. We believe  
employees return from time away revitalized, with 
new perspectives that enable them to be more 
productive and engaged. Sabbaticals also represent 
interim opportunities for others within the  
organization to build skills and capabilities. 
*Each country has specific requirements and legal considerations regarding how race/ethnicity data can be used and reported. Our reporting focuses on our US/PR populations as it is uniform in definition, reporting and use.Equal Pay For Equal Work
Percentage of employees who showed no statistically significant pay disparity: OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.35
Global Employee Assistance Program
Global Employee Assistance programs provide a  
network of support and valuable resources that 
encourages overall well-being, including help with 
finances, family life, elder/child care and mental 
health. In 2018, we expanded the availability of  
the programs to include coverage in all countries 
where Boston Scientific has a concentration of  
employees. 
EMBRACING NEW LIFE-WORK NEEDS  
Our Benefits to Fit Your Life program provides a 
range of benefits and services for different stages  
of life that reflect what our employees want and 
need to be happy, productive and engaged in  
their roles. 
In the U.S., the program includes enhanced  
infertility treatment support and expanded  
maternal and paternal leave, as well as breast  
milk shipping service and increased assistance  
for working parents to find and pay for child care.  
We also added telehealth services and a new  
meal planning service, while expanding programs  
for college planning and caring for aging parents.  
We will continue to evolve these programs with  
a focus on paid time off, employee needs  
resulting from the impact of delaying a family  
for a career, fertility in all family units, and tuition  
and educational support that includes remote  
learning and non-degree education.  In 2018, we expanded the Benefits to Fit Your Life 
program globally with programs developed in direct 
response to regional employee input. Examples of 
our new offerings include:
   Ireland – Alignment of maternity and paternity  
pay and job-sharing for direct labor employees  
as well as career staff
   Japan – Programs to expand flexibility and  
family support options for employees, including 
improved work-from-home policies
   Hong Kong – Flexible fitness, engagement,  
personal development, child care and dental 
benefits
   China – New family-friendly options for working 
parents such as flexible hours on the first day  
of the school term 
   India and Korea – Child care subsidies for  
working parents as well as new education  
support options
Employee Health and Safety
A commitment to employee health and safety  
is a prerequisite to our pursuit of patient care.  
A shared culture of ensuring the safety of our  
employees enables meaningful innovation and 
business success. 
Our strong health and safety performance  
contributes to competitive strength and benefits  
for not only our employees, but also our  
customers, communities and shareholders.  
To deliver on our goals in accordance with the  
Boston Scientific Environmental, Health and  Safety (EHS) policy, we integrate safety metrics in  
our overall monitoring systems at the local and 
global levels. Boston Scientific teams review these 
metrics daily in local groups, weekly in management 
meetings and monthly with global leadership, with 
a focus on adverse trends or significant incidents to 
ensure effective responses. 
We set measurable safety goals called Total  
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) targets for every  
Boston Scientific site, with lower targets at our  
less complex locations. Our EHS Operations  
Council assesses performance monthly to  
discuss trending and improvement opportunities, 
including global company leadership reviews.2018 ACHIEVEMENT:
0.5/100   
We maintained our target 
safety goal of 0.5 injuries 
per 100 employees, which 
we achieved in 2017...  
two years ahead of our  
2019 target.
*Safety goal specific to Boston Scientific major manufacturing and distribution facilities. OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.36
2018 renovations in our  
Galway, Ireland, facility  
focused around biophilic  
design, an emerging field  
with the goal of connecting  
people more closely to  
nature.  
2018 was the first full year of 
operations in our expanded 
Heredia, Costa Rica, facility, 
featuring bright and open 
collaboration spaces and new 
amenities.Our new Hong Kong office, 
which opened in February 
2018, offers modern,  
collaborative equipment  
and plenty of natural light  
in a location convenient to 
public transportation.Renovations to our San Jose 
– Baytech, California, facility 
included adding more than 
20,000 square feet of state-
of-the-art R&D lab and open 
office space, as well as a new 
on-site fitness center.The Arden Hills, Minnesota,  
office was renovated in 2018  
to include a state-of-the-art 
employee café and multi-use 
space.Boston Scientific WorkspacesOccupational Health and Well-being
Our employees are our most important resource  
and a comprehensive employee well-being program 
is an integral part of our employee support system.  
To ensure stronger and more focused programs, we  
launched a new Occupation Health Council in 2017 
and saw promising results from its first full year of 
work in 2018.Health and wellness programs provided in 2018 
included employee nutrition, yoga, weight  
management support, smoking cessation,  
mindfulness and organized team sports events.
In addition, we maintain global facilities at a  
high standard to ensure our physical workspaces  
promote optimal physical health and overall  
well-being. We continue to invest in Boston  Scientific workspaces worldwide to provide  
energy-filled, creative environments that allow  
innovation to thrive and employees to feel  
included, valued and engaged.  OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.37
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES
Boston Scientific employees volunteer at a variety  
of organizations in communities where we operate, 
including this event during our annual Week of  
Caring to support a homeless shelter in California.
Our caring value guides us in how we engage with patients, 
how we work together as colleagues and how we invest in the 
well-being of communities. Around the world, our employees 
participate in and influence the way we care for people in local 
communities.
We focus our community engagement efforts on three key areas: 
Health
We aim to decrease health 
disparities for the underserved 
by providing access to quality 
care, supporting prevention 
and awareness programs and 
helping to prepare children for a 
healthy journey into adulthood.Education
By supporting education and 
STEM (Science, Technology,  
Engineering and Math)  
programming for K-12 students 
around the globe, we are 
helping to develop the diverse 
future talent that will enable  
us to create health solutions  
for generations to come.Community
Through engagement and 
recognition programs,  we are 
empowering our employees  
to Advance Possibilities in  
their local communities by  
donating their time and  
resources to help those  
most in need.  OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.38
PROMOTING HEALTH EQUITY
Fostering Healthy Communities
Our work in healthcare comes with a profound 
responsibility to those around us. As the industry 
landscape evolves, we know that preventing illness is 
just as important as treating it. Our health awareness 
programs provide education and resources to help 
people around the world live better and healthier 
lives. Additionally, we work with global organizations 
to bring new resources to regions where people lack 
access, information and basic care.
We are also focused on reducing risk and decreasing 
health disparities in chronic disease for underserved 
populations. We strive to help as many patients 
as possible improve their health by sharing our 
products, expertise, time and resources. Our global 
collaborations with Project Hope, Partners in Health 
and Children’s HeartLink have helped to increase 
the investment in, and number of, global healthcare 
workers focused on chronic disease. Since 2016, the 
combined impact of these partnerships has included 
training for 2,255 healthcare workers and chronic  
disease screening, education or care for 20,147  
people in India, South Africa, Malaysia and Mexico. Project HOPE in South Africa
Boston Scientific collaborated with Project HOPE, 
a U.S.-based global health and humanitarian relief 
organization, to implement new health screening 
protocols in South Africa, a priority set by South 
Africa’s Ministry of Health. The project focused on 
creating standards for screening and on increasing  
the skills of local community health workers to 
reduce occurrence of noncommunicable diseases. 
Project HOPE teams have completed training of 
more than 350 community health workers on  
effective health screening of diabetes and  
hypertension, as well as nearly 50 nurses. As a 
result of Boston Scientific funding and employee  
volunteers, Project HOPE expects to reach 
60,000 people who will receive screening and 
health services from newly trained community 
health workers in South Africa. Health Camp in India
Boston Scientific teams in India and Marlborough,  
Massachusetts, joined forces with HCS Wellness,  
a firm in India that helps workplaces build  
wellness programs, to provide a healthcare  
camp for children at an underprivileged school  
in Gurgaon, India. More than 200 children were 
given health tutorials and medical, dental and  
eye screenings to determine their need for  
eyeglasses, vaccines and additional dental  
procedures. The teams also handed out school  
supplies, dental care items and fleece blankets.
25,000+   
People reached in 2018 by 
Close the Gap health equity 
activities and initiatives100+  
U.S. Congress members 
educated on the impact of 
critical limb ischemia and 
lower extremity amputations 
among African Americans17  
States with high cardio-
vascular disease mortality 
and/or significant health 
disparity* benefited from 
education and awareness 
activities
 433,000+   
Impressions from the Close 
the Gap Twitter account in 
201873%   
Positive response to all 
tweets and campaigns OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.39
Close the Gap Health Equity Initiative 
Boston Scientific is leading efforts to promote health 
equity through our Close the Gap initiative , which 
aims to eliminate care disparities and improve 
patients’ access to health services regardless of age, 
gender, race, ethnicity or primary language. The 
company collaborates with diverse stakeholders 
to advocate for broader minority representation in 
clinical trials, to support patient advocacy efforts, 
and to reach underserved patient populations with 
culturally relevant education and resources delivered 
through events, programs and social media dialogue. 
In 2018, nearly 60 Close the Gap events took place in 
communities across the United States.
*Measured by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.Close the Gap By the NumbersTaking Action to Close the Gap
Collaborating at Pride
The Close the Gap team collaborates closely 
with the PACE (People Accepting and  
Celebrating Equality) ERG to create relevant 
LGBTQ+ educational materials focused on 
health disparities in the community. 
At the June 2018 Twin Cities Pride Festival 
in Minneapolis, Minnesota, volunteer  
physicians from the Minneapolis Heart  
Institute Foundation answered questions  
from participants about heart disease  
while volunteer nurses performed more 
than 100 blood pressure screenings and 
provided education on existing health  
disparities in the LGBTQ+ community.  
This outreach will serve as a model for us  
at future Pride events in the U.S.  OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.40
INSPIRING THE NEXT   
GENERATION OF LEADERS  
To inspire a global and diverse generation of future 
science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) 
innovators, Boston Scientific provides challenging 
and fun opportunities to expose children to STEM 
experiences and future careers. 
Our volunteers bring STEM experiences to students 
in the communities where we operate, collaborating 
with educators to understand their students' needs 
and shape a customized approach. From mentoring 
and sharing career experiences to hands-on  
experiments and tours of Boston Scientific facilities, 
we work to introduce students from underrepresented 
populations to the possibilities STEM learning can 
provide and maintain dedicated STEM teams at 13 
Boston Scientific sites. 
In 2018, our teams achieved: 
 10,500+ STEM volunteer hours 
 1,300+ STEM volunteers 
 200+ STEM events
Our STEM programming is intended to help grow  
a future pipeline of diverse talent. An important  
part of our STEM outreach efforts has been finding 
creative and interactive ways for Boston Scientific 
employees to share their passion for their work with 
young learners. We’ve created career cards, videos 
and other tools to introduce students to employees 
in a variety of STEM roles. Left: Each year, the Boston Scientific Arden Hills,  
Minnesota, STEM team hosts an annual Girl Scout  
Patch Day with the Society of Women Engineers.  
Junior Girl Scouts participate in activities to learn  
about engineering, science and package design.
Left: In 2018, Boston Scientific introduced students  
to a new friend, Procedure Pal. Designed to help 
demonstrate how some Boston Scientific devices are 
used, Procedure Pal is an interactive table-top model 
that helps kids see real examples of where devices  
are placed within the body and how each works. Our 
volunteers can explain medical procedures such as  
deep brain stimulation for the treatment of Parkinson’s 
disease symptoms and the implantation of cardiac  
pacemakers to help the heart beat more regularly.  
Created by Boston Scientific volunteers from  
Minnesota and Massachusetts, Procedure Pal models 
have been featured in demonstrations globally,  
including here in our Galway, Ireland facility.Right: Through the “Little Doctors” program  
in China, Boston Scientific employees share practical  
and fun lessons on first aid, CPR and trauma dressing 
with local students. 
STEM Spotlight: Nurturing Talent for the Future
S.T.E.M. OUR PEOPLE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.41
states. We also managed an Employee Disaster  
Relief Fund to support individuals and families  
impacted by large natural weather events and  
disasters. Many people who were impacted by  
Hurricane Maria in September 2017 continued  
to benefit from this fund in 2018, with Boston  
Scientific employees and the company donating  
$810,000 in 2018, adding to the more than  
$4 million given in 2017.
Possibility Grants 
In 2018, Boston Scientific offered Massachusetts  
and Minnesota employees the opportunity to  
nominate local non-profits for Possibility Grants  
intended to help solve a significant problem in  
a local community. Ten award winners received  
a total of nearly $14,000 to support projects and  
programs including a new indoor arena for a  
therapeutic horseback riding program for young 
adults with special needs, a middle school garden 
and compost program, and new computers for a 
teen crisis center. GIVING BACK TO OUR COMMUNITIES
In 2018, our global network of Boston Scientific  
employee volunteers raised awareness through  
more than 600 community engagement events  
in 33 countries. 
We have an awards program to recognize  
outstanding employee volunteers and received  
more than 250 nominations highlighting the  
work of employees who are making a difference 
through culturally and locally relevant community 
service. 
We also help communities in need through the  
Boston Scientific Employee Matching Gifts Program 
and the Employee Disaster Relief Fund. Through  
our Employee Matching Gifts Program, employees 
can contribute to a cause they care about with  
Boston Scientific matching their gift. In 2018, we  
provided $8.9 million in charitable contributions  
to support communities around the world,  
targeted mostly to health and education efforts.  
In addition, we provided over $72 million in  
funding for research and education efforts  
across a wide category of health and disease  Living Our Caring Value:
43,000+  hours  
volunteering in our  
communities
8,500+  employee  
volunteers around the world 
600+  employee  
volunteering events  
worldwide
Boston Scientific volunteers in Maple Grove,  
Minnesota, participated in an event called Free  
Bikes for Kids to benefit local children.  BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.42
OUR PRACTICES OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.43
As we work together to  
advance science for life,  
the quality and safety of  
our products and services  
is our top priority. We are 
committed to applying safe, 
ethical and sustainable  
business practices in all that 
we do to make a meaningful 
difference in the lives of  
patients and their families.
WORKING RESPONSIBLY
We work responsibly to research, develop, man-
ufacture and deliver our innovative products with 
our commitment to strong corporate governance, 
impeccable ethics and compliance with industry 
regulations.
GOVERNANCE
Boston Scientific is committed to doing business  
with integrity and honesty. An ethical workplace and 
governing structure begins with our Board of  OUR PRACTICES
Directors and executive leadership, who oversee  
the implementation of guidelines to ensure we  
act ethically in our business practices, comply  
with local tax and business laws and regulations,  
and remain transparent in our reporting. All of  
our employees are responsible for applying these 
guidelines to interactions with customers, suppliers 
and investors, and in the communities in which  
we operate. 
Our Board maintains charters for governing its  
committees. The current committees of the Board 
are the Audit Committee, Executive Compensation 
and Human Resources Committee, Finance  
Committee, and Nominating and Governance  
Committee. A nominating and governance  
committee reviews our Board composition and  
committee membership annually to ensure it  
reflects the needs of our diverse stakeholders.
Risk management is essential to our governance. 
Our Board oversees an Enterprise Risk Management 
program, which identifies strategic, operational, 
financial, legal and compliance risks so we can  
anticipate and adapt to potential challenges. We 
continually evaluate our corporate governance 
guidelines, committee charters and Code of Conduct, 
taking into consideration relevant laws, regulations 
and listing requirements, as well as best practices 
suggested by recognized governance authorities.
 OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.44
COMPLIANCE, ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
Our company values underpin our commitment to 
ethical and honest business practices in everything 
we do.
Our employees are expected to:
   Act honestly and ethically in all company matters
   Protect the privacy of patients, customers and 
employees
   Treat each other with respect and fairness
   Hold each other accountable to ensure quality in 
all that we do
The Global Compliance team, led by our chief  
compliance officer, supports the company’s world-
wide culture of compliance and ethics through  
partnerships and collaboration with commercial 
team members and other key stakeholders. The  
chief compliance officer reports quarterly to the  
audit committee of the Board of Directors.
Code of Conduct for Employees and Channel Partners
Boston Scientific strives to comply with applicable 
laws in every relationship, every day. Our Code of 
Conduct is the foundation for our existing policies 
and must be read and fully understood by every 
employee. Additionally, we have multiple training 
curriculums which are required for all employees. 
Our Code of Conduct training curriculum provides 
ongoing education to employees on our policies,  
corruption and compliance-related risks, and resources  
for asking questions and reporting concerns. It also 
features real-life, scenario-based content.Our U.S. Customer Interactions training provides 
guidance on the laws, policies, principles and  
processes for interacting with healthcare  
professionals licensed to practice in the U. S.  
Our anti-corruption training course reviews the  
compliance requirements for interacting with  
healthcare professionals, public officials and  
other third parties, such as our channel partners 
(e.g., distributors, dealers and agents) outside  
of the U.S.
Our Channel Partner Code of Conduct sets forth 
expectations for our channel partners (i.e.,  
distributors, dealers and agents) doing business  
on our behalf. All channel partners annually certify 
adherence to the Boston Scientific and Channel  
Partner Codes of Conduct as part of on-boarding  
or renewal procedures as well as complete  
mandatory training. Boston Scientific requires  
channel partners to abide by anti-bribery and  
anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign  
Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and  
other national laws. We monitor and support  
our channel partners through our Third Party  
Program, which includes on-site auditing and  
other procedures that validate channel partners’ 
compliance with our requirements.
Compliance Program
We have a comprehensive compliance program to 
prevent, detect and respond, if needed, to conduct 
that does not align to our Code of Conduct. Our 
program also includes periodic assessments of our 
compliance program’s effectiveness and an annual risk assessment, using internal and external inputs,  
to determine strategic focus areas across all elements  
of our compliance program.
Boston Scientific Advice Line
We encourage employees to ask questions and  
report concerns, including anything that conflicts 
with our Code of Conduct, through our advice line, 
which is operated by a third party and available 24 
hours a day in multiple languages.
Our Non-Retaliation Policy prohibits any form of  
retaliation, direct or indirect, against an individual 
who raises a concern in good faith. This policy  
extends to anyone who assists with, or cooperates  
in, an investigation or report of misconduct.EMPLOYEE EXPECTATIONS:
Act honestly and ethically.
Protect privacy of patients, 
customers and employees.
Be respectful and fair.
Hold each other  
accountable, to ensure 
quality in all we do. OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.45
DEVELOPING INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS
It takes an unwavering focus to deliver life-changing 
treatments. We foster an environment of creativity to 
transform new ideas into breakthrough services and 
solutions that create value for patients, customers 
and employees. Our teams collaborate internally  
and externally to solve the challenges that matter 
most, always with a focus on patients. 
Our Global Approach to Innovation 
Boston Scientific new product development teams 
follow the Product Life Cycle Process (PLCP), a global 
process that integrates business, technical and  
quality system tasks to drive innovative product  
ideas from strategy through commercialization to 
product end-of-life. This methodology helps us  
share experience and knowledge across the  
company and ensures a consistent, quality-focused 
approach to new products and services.
To better meet the needs of patients and customers 
in global markets, we have research and development 
sites in the United States, European Union, Costa  
Rica, India and China. These sites help us closely  
align our R&D teams designing products with  
our manufacturing teams building products. In  
addition, our R&D Centers of Excellence help us  
share expertise and capabilities across our global 
product development network.  Pre-Clinical Sciences 
Boston Scientific conducts pre-clinical research  
to investigate and demonstrate the safety and  
efficacy of our medical device products prior to  
human clinical trials and use. To ensure excellence  
in our pre-clinical research and science, our policies 
set standards to be certain that we are consistently 
pursuing product efficacy, fulfilling regulatory  
requirements and engaging in essential training.  
At times, to ensure we meet our obligations of  
safety in new products and therapies, animal  
testing is utilized and serves as an important  
component of our research and development  
efforts. The FDA may require evidence from  
pre-clinical testing prior to commencing human 
clinical trials. 
We are committed to the humane care and  
treatment of laboratory animals, and use  
alternative testing whenever such methods  
are feasible, scientifically valid and appropriate.  
Our pre-clinical research personnel are highly  
trained with multiple certifications and our  
facilities meet or exceed applicable laws and  regulatory authority requirements, guidelines and 
standards. Finally, we are routinely audited by our 
own internal experts and relevant government  
agencies including FDA, USDA and AAALAC. 
Clinical Trials
Advancing our product pipeline to include new 
and expanded indications requires a commitment 
to leading transformative and innovative science. 
Clinical trials are critical to our assurance that the 
products we offer are of the highest quality and  
safety. We conduct trials in accordance with  
international and national regulatory requirements 
with dedication to our quality systems, which  
are designed for legal and regulatory compliance,  
as well as for enhancing delivery of global trial  
operations. In 2018, we invested in operational  
enhancements that will prepare our trials for  
compliance with the General Data Protection  
Regulation, E.U. Medical Device Regulation and  
Risk-Based Monitoring as well as additional  
enhancements to drive ISO (International  
Standards Organization) and operational  
excellence.
CLINICAL STUDIES AT A GLANCE:
There were 150  active clinical studies in 2018,  
including more than 55,000 patients globally.Recognize Development Excellence is an annual  
Boston Scientific program that recognizes and  
rewards cross-functional teams who develop  
meaningful innovations for patients, customers  
and company.Now in its fourth year, the Boston Scientific  
Connected Patient Challenge is an open  
competition to promote the development of  
meaningful innovation to address complex  
healthcare challenges. The 2018 competition, 
co-sponsored by Google Cloud, focused on the  
role of the Internet of Things in influencing  
patient outcomes. The winner, XcellCure, a startup  
biotechnology company, developed the AmiAware 
cardiac microarray concept to detect early warning 
signs of a heart attack in patients with chest pain. 
The award enabled the company to further  
develop the platform and clinical strategy. Boston Scientific leaders demonstrate their  
commitment to innovation though the ImagineIF 
Innovation Fund. Employees are encouraged to  
participate in a venture-style contest that solicits  
breakthrough ideas across the organization. This  
program helps to continuously reinforce our  
meaningful innovation core value. Since the 2014 
launch, we’ve funded more than 50 projects. 
Focus on Innovation
Celebrating Our Teams Recognizing Development Excellence Improving Patient Care with Digital Health OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.46RECOGNITION FOR INNOVATION EXCELLENCE IN 2018
   Forbes Most Innovative Companies: Boston Scientific named to Forbes' list of The World's Most  
Innovative Companies 
  Clarivate: Boston Scientific recognized for the third consecutive year as a Derwent Top 100 Global  
Innovator by Clarivate Analytics
  Prix Galien: The Boston Scientific WATCHMAN™ Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Device received  
the Prix Galien USA 2018 Award for Best Medical Technology, one of the global health innovation  
industry’s most prized honors 
Every employee makes an impact on the quality of patient 
care and has an opportunity to innovate so that we can keep 
improving. We will never be satisfied with the status quo. OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.47
Collaborating on Solutions to Improve Patient Care 
The Boston Scientific ADVANTICS™ Innovative 
Healthcare Solutions portfolio helps customers 
solve complex challenges. Using clinical and  
operational expertise, our team works together  
with cardiovascular staff to improve the patient  
experience, grow their Structural Heart programs 
and optimize cardiovascular lab performance.  
Recent collaborations include:
  A 300+ bed hospital that offers advanced  
services in cardiovascular medicine where  
we identified improvement opportunities  
within the Structural Heart program, including 
increasing patient access to care and efficiency 
of care. As a result, the hospital has been able 
to treat more patients who benefited from a 
streamlined referral process and operational 
improvements.
    A 500+ bed hospital where we facilitated  
same-day discharges for patients who under -
went percutaneous coronary intervention  
(PCI). Within 12 months, more than 30 percent  
of patients who would have previously  
required an overnight stay were discharged  
the same day and able to recover in the  
comfort of their own homes. This resulted in 
decreased costs and increased inpatient bed 
capacity.QUALITY AND SAFETY
Quality is integrated into every aspect of our  
work to ensure we design, test, manufacture and  
distribute high-quality, safe and effective devices. 
Our commitment to quality begins with our Quality 
Policy, a one-line statement that is highly visible in 
our facilities: “I improve the quality of patient care 
and all things Boston Scientific.” This commitment  
is supported by Quality Systems Basics training for  
all Boston Scientific employees.
The following key elements are included in our  
approach to quality:   A Quality Master Plan that helps us strategically 
plan and prioritize quality improvement projects 
that emphasize prevention and will lead to higher 
quality products, with better patient outcomes  
and fewer customer complaints
   A strategy we call Best4, with the goal of  
delivering industry-leading performance in  
(1) compliance,  
(2) outcomes,  
(3) efficiency and  
(4) agility
   A Global Quality System that integrates customer 
feedback and regulatory requirements into our 
processesFocus on Quality: Connecting our teams to  
customers and patients
Annual employee events are held at Boston  
Scientific sites to celebrate the impact our work  
has on improving the quality of patient care.  
The theme of these events is “Everyone Makes  
an Impact,” reinforcing the importance of  
every employee’s role. Patients and physicians 
attend as guest speakers to share personal  
experiences, and employees participate in  
activities to reaffirm their commitment to the  
Boston Scientific Quality Policy. OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.48
Our Quality Mission, "We exceed expectations with 
customer-centric quality solutions that transform 
patient lives," is at the forefront of our product  
development process and complements our  
Quality Policy. Our Global Design Controls process,  
integrated with Risk Management and Usability  
Engineering helps us leverage complex technologies 
to create safe and effective solutions. We use an  
iterative process that centers on the needs of the 
final user at every stage of design and development.  
Our employees are encouraged to spend time  
outside our offices to observe procedures and  
talk to patients as well as healthcare providers.
A key aspect of product quality includes the  
materials used in our manufacturing processes.  
Boston Scientific has globally harmonized processes  
and systems to provide an efficient, flexible and  
comprehensive approach to compliance with  
medical, environmental and other material  
regulations. This includes component material  
and device material assessment. We carefully  
select the materials used in our products as well  
as our suppliers so that we can provide safe  
and effective solutions. Our teams continually  
monitor and comply with global regulations  
to ensure our products continue to meet all  
applicable requirements.Continually Improving with Quality Initiatives
Each year we undertake several targeted quality and 
compliance initiatives to ensure ongoing compliance 
with changing global industry regulations, while also 
focusing on continuously improving our products. 
Highlights of our 2018 accomplishments include:
  Implemented a global design controls process   
that fully integrates usability engineering and risk 
management for effective new product develop-
ment as well as customer-centric product designs. 
  Enabled innovation and expansion into new  
technologies with the launch of our new Global 
Process for Digital Health Development and  
Validation.
  Adapted to the evolving regulatory environment 
with programs to implement General Data  
Protection Regulation (GDPR) and continued to 
prepare for the European Union Medical Device 
Regulation (MDR). Executed enterprise training  
for both initiatives and implemented new policies 
and procedure updates to ensure compliance. 
  Invested in advancements in Post Market Quality 
assurance , including implementation of a global 
complaint management system that will enable 
continued evolution in post market surveillance.
  Launched Workstation Built-in Quality prevention 
program to enable quality at the source where  
the product is being built.
  Implemented new lab management system for  
our Pathology franchise that provides end-to-end 
specimen processing and traceability with slide 
printing, barcode scanning technology and  
enhanced quality control processes. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN  
With approximately 15,000 life-changing products, 
our manufacturing and supply chain teams play  
a critical role in ensuring that we plan, source,  
manufacture and distribute a reliable supply of 
high-quality products to meet our customers’  
evolving needs. To guide our work, we use a  
strategic quality process to prioritize, execute  
and monitor manufacturing and supply chain  
efforts. The process enables our global teams  
to work toward a common set of objectives. 
Maintaining the highest-quality component  
supply requires a rigorous supply chain and  
supplier risk-management approach. Our sourcing 
team monitors supplier risk level to ensure that  
we partner with long-term suppliers that share  
our customer focus. Our supply chain team  
facilitates planning for Boston Scientific products 
across divisions and regions. Both teams enable  
our network of manufacturing plants and global  
distribution centers to provide the right product  
at the right place and the right time.
Partnering to Set Industry Standards for Quality  
and Compliance
We collaborate with trade associations and  
regulatory bodies around the world to set new 
standards in quality and to anticipate and address 
changing regulatory guidelines. We are committed  
to having patient-focused, high-performing  
quality systems and helping influence industry  
and regulatory approaches to quality.In the U.S., we participate in the Case for Quality  
Voluntary Improvement Program, a multi-year  
initiative led by the U.S. Food and Drug  
Administration (FDA) in conjunction with the  
Medical Device Innovation Consortium (MDIC)  
to improve product quality using best practices,  
standards, tools and metrics. In 2017, we were one  
of the first companies invited to participate in the 
agency’s Voluntary Medical Device Manufacturing 
and Product Quality Program. This pilot program 
uses an independent assessment to evaluate  
the capability of medical device organizations to  
produce high quality devices and improve patient 
safety. To date, we’ve had four successful year-one 
and one successful year-two appraisals:
  Year One Appraisals:  Arden Hills, Minnesota;  
Clonmel, Ireland; Maple Grove, Minnesota;  
Galway, Ireland
 Year Two Appraisal:  Arden Hills, Minnesota
We also participate in the FDA 510K improvement 
and Software for Digital Health programs.
In May 2017, new European Union MDR was  
published with the goal of strengthening the  
regulatory platform across the EU to further  
enhance patient safety. By May 2020, companies 
must demonstrate compliance with the MDR for  
all products that require CE mark, including existing 
commercialized products that must apply for CE 
mark renewal. Boston Scientific global quality and 
regulatory teams have continued to collaborate  
with industry trade group MedTech Europe and   OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.49
“ Usability is a critical design 
component for a safe and 
effective device.” 
— Roz Burke,  
Senior Vice President,  
Global Quality and  
Regulatory Affairs
“ Usability engineering  
helps us understand what  
customers do, why they do  
it and what they’re trying  
to accomplish. With this 
knowledge, we can create 
innovative solutions that  
drive healthcare forward.”
— David Feygin,  
Chief Digital Health Officer 
 OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.50
other working groups to ensure we are prepared  
for the implementation of MDR requirements.
Effective May 25, 2018, the GDPR, a new European 
Union (EU) law, governs how companies use person-
al data (customer, employee and patient data). The 
GDPR broadly impacts our company since EU per -
sonal data is collected, processed and stored globally. 
Our global privacy team collaborated with MedTech 
Europe as part of the data protection working group 
as well as the trade association AdvaMed in its new 
Data Stewardship and Privacy Working Group as part 
of our effort to comply with the new regulation. Measuring and Monitoring Effectiveness of  
Quality and Compliance
Boston Scientific conducts internal audits to  
verify that our Global Quality System conforms  
to internal and external requirements and is  
effectively implemented and maintained. We  
plan and execute internal audits and conduct  
follow-up actions including re-audit of prior  
observations and the verification of actions  
taken.
External regulatory agencies also review our  
performance to ensure quality and compliance,  
with the following results in 2018: 
External Regulatory Inspections*  79
Percent External Regulatory Inspections  
 Resulting in No Findings*  67%
Average Findings per External  
 Regulatory Inspection*  0.71
Average Findings per FDA Inspection 0.70
*Includes Notified Body, Competent Authority, FDAProduct Performance
Boston Scientific reviews customer feedback as  
well as experience with our devices. This information 
provides valuable inputs for our Quality System as 
well as future product iterations and innovations. 
Our Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) process 
establishes a system to collect and analyze data  
to find root causes for potential compliance and 
quality problems. Our teams are then able to  
address any potential issues and prevent future  
issues or recurrences. We initiate field actions  
(product advisories, product advisory updates,  
product retrievals), including follow-up and closure, 
to ensure regulatory or field safety issues are  
quickly and effectively addressed.
In 2018, Boston Scientific had zero Class I recalls  
and zero Open FDA Warning Letters. OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.51
PACKAGING AND LABELING
Packaging of our medical devices ensures protection 
during sterilization, distribution, storage and use.  
We collaborate with our customers to understand 
their needs and requirements with usability  
assessments. Additionally, we have a global  
Sustainability Packaging and Labeling Steering  
Committee that works with our CSR Council to  
develop our strategy and prioritize global goals  
and projects. We continuously evaluate our  
packaging and supply chain practices to optimize  
design, reduce waste and limit emissions. In 2018, 
with key improvements, our global packaging  
teams:  Eliminated 120 tons of packaging from landfills 
  Avoided 2,500 pallet shipments
  Repurposed 1,000 products during development
Boston Scientific also ensures that we have the  
controls in place to initiate, review and finalize  
product labeling to meet global labeling regulations.  
Our labeling ensures proper identification and  
prevents mix-ups by remaining legible and  
attached to the product throughout its lifecycle.  
This additional focus on our packaging and  
labeling design enables us to meet the needs  
of our customers while reducing our overall  
environmental footprint. Reducing corrugated material 
Final packaging and labeling processes of our  
Microspheres product lines were relocated  
from our Cork, Ireland manufacturing facility  
to our Kerkrade European Distribution Center, 
allowing sterile pack units to be packed and 
shipped without shelf cartons. This resulted in  
a 73 percent reduction of annual corrugated 
material consumption.
Eliminating pallet shipments
Our teams updated our Electrophysiology  
catheter thermoformed tray design to enable  
local sourcing of components in Heredia, Costa 
Rica. This eliminated the shipment of over  
47 pallets annually.
2018 WorldStar Packaging Award Winner
The development of a new package design for  
Ureteral Stents met customers’ expectations, 
eliminated the need for 120,000 pounds  
of plastic per year, optimized storage, use  
and post-surgical waste in healthcare facilities  
and maintained product functionality. The  
WorldStar Packaging Awards Competition  
is one of the major events of the World  
Packaging Organization and is the pre- 
eminent international award in packaging.Packaging Reduction OUR PRACTICES BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.52
SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESS   
AND SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Boston Scientific builds diversity and inclusion into 
every aspect of our business, including our supply 
chain. As part of our procurement process, we strive 
to partner with certified companies that share our 
dedication to improving the quality of patient care.  
In 2018, we worked with more than 700 diverse  
supplier businesses, including:
  Minority-owned
  Small
  Small disadvantaged
  Veteran-owned
  Service disabled veteran-owned
  HUBZone
  Disability-owned
  LGBT-owned
In 2018, $322 million of our spend was attributed to 
our work with diverse suppliers, a 6 percent increase 
from 2017. In addition, we conducted more than  
120 capability assessments with diverse suppliers 
and participated in trade shows that promoted 
diverse suppliers. 
Additionally, we strengthened our commitment to 
supplier diversity in 2018 by establishing a full-time 
management role to focus on this aspect of our 
operations. Our Manager of Supplier Diversity is 
charged with setting our approach, policies, goals 
and targets to align with our values and business 
objectives. In 2019, we expect to increase spending 
with diverse suppliers by 5 percent and to conduct 
an additional 100 capability assessments.Working with Responsible Suppliers
We have robust standards for the more than 10,000 
global suppliers with which we work to deliver our 
innovative medical solutions to physicians and 
patients. We actively look for suppliers that deliver 
industry-leading quality, reliability and value as we 
work to meet our customers’ needs. 
Quality is the most important aspect of our supplier 
relationships, and all direct materials suppliers are 
required to comply with Boston Scientific quality 
standards. We seek partnerships with suppliers  
that share our commitment to strong ethics and 
full compliance with all applicable laws. In 2018, 
we further standardized our supplier performance 
assessment tools and expanded our robust criteria 
to include key corporate social responsibility topics 
among key strategic business requirements. While 
this evaluation process takes time, it allows us to 
foster relationships with responsible suppliers that 
support our business continuity and risk mitigation 
strategy.
Boston Scientific representatives attending a 2018 
Massachusetts LGBT Chamber of Commerce event.
" Embracing differences in  
perspectives and cultures  
of our suppliers furthers  
our goals in innovation  
and positively impacts the 
economies in which we  
live and work.”  
— Ed Mackey, Executive Vice President,  
Global OperationsIn 2018, we spent $322  
million with 700+ diverse 
suppliers, a 6% increase 
from 2017. NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.53
This Performance Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. See the discussion under “Safe Harbor for  
Forward-Looking Statements” in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, for matters to be considered in this regard. In addition,  
please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our Non-GAAP adjustments and the reasons for excluding each item.
 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,       
      5-Year  
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN NET SALES  2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Average
Percentage change in net sales, as reported 8.6 % 7.9 % 12 % 1 % 3 % 7 %
Less: Impact of foreign currency fluctuations 0.6 % 0.1 % — % (7)% (3)% (1)%
Percentage change in net sales, operational 8.0 % 7.8 % 12 % 8 % 6 % 8 %
Less: Impact of certain acquisitions 0.8 % 1.2 % 2 % 3 % 2 % 1 %
Percentage change in net sales, organic 7.2 % 6.6 % 10 % 5 % 4 % 7 %
 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
OPERATING MARGIN 2 0 1 8  2017 2016 2015 2014
Operating margin, reported 15.3 % 14.2 % 5.3 % (3.8)% (4.1)%
 Less: Non-GAAP adjustments (10.2)% (10.8)% (18.8)% (26.1)% (24.3)%
Operating margin, adjusted 25.5 % 25.0 % 24.1 % 22.3 % 20.2 %
Basis Point Improvement from 2017 50 
Basis Point Improvement from 2014 530
Percentages are calculated using unrounded numbers and may not recalculate precisely due to rounding. Amounts may not add due to rounding.  NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.54
 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018    
   Less: Impact of  Less: Impact  
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN NET SALES   Reported Foreign Currency Operational of Certain Organic 
BY BUSINESS AND SEGMENT  Basis Fluctuations  Basis Acquisitions Basis
Endoscopy  8.8 % 0.5 % 8.3 % — % 8.3 %
Urology and Pelvic Health  10.8 % 0.2 % 10.6 % 2.5 % 8.1 %
MedSurg†  9.7 % 0.4 % 9.3 % 1.1 % 8.2 %
Cardiac Rhythm Management  2.9 % 0.8 % 2.1 % — % 2.1 %
Electrophysiology  12.1 % 1.2 % 10.9 % — % 10.9 %
Neuromodulation  22.7 % 0.2 % 22.5 % — % 22.5 %
Rhythm and Neuro†  8.3 % 0.7 % 7.6 % — % 7.6 %
Interventional Cardiology  7.1 % 0.5 % 6.6 % 2.1 % 4.5 %
Peripheral Interventions  9.8 % 0.6 % 9.2 % — % 9.2 %
Cardiovascular  7.9 % 0.5 % 7.4 % 1.4 % 6.0 %
 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018  
      Less: Impact of   
     Reported  Foreign Currency Operational 
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN NET SALES BY REGION    Basis Fluctuations  Basis
U.S.    7.3% — % 7.3%
EMEA† (Europe, Middle East and Africa)    12.2% 3.2 % 9.0%
APAC† (Asia-Pacific)    8.8% 1.3 % 7.5%
LACA (Latin America and Canada)    6.8% (9.0)% 15.8%
Emerging Markets    18.0% (3.4)% 21.4%
Percentages are calculated using unrounded numbers and may not recalculate precisely due to rounding. Amounts may not add due to rounding.   NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS BOSTON SCIENTIFIC 2018 PERFORMANCE REPORT p.55
 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
EARNINGS PER SHARE 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
GAAP earnings (loss) per share (EPS) $ 1.19 $0.08 $0.25 $(0.18) $(0.09) $(0.09)
Non-GAAP adjustments 0.28 1.18 0.86 1.11a 0.93b 0.82c
Adjusted EPS $ 1.47 $ 1.26 $  1.11 $ 0.93 $ 0.84 $  0.73
Less: Impact of 2018 net tax benefitd 0.07 —  
Adjusted EPS, excluding 2018 net tax benefit $1.40 $ 1.26
Adjusted EPS growth from prior year 17% 13% 20% 11% 15% 
Adjusted EPS growth from prior year, excluding net tax benefit 11% 
5-Year Average Adjusted EPS growth, excluding net tax benefit 14%  
a Assumes dilution of 21.5 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2015.  
b Assumes dilution of 23.7 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2014.   
c Assumes dilution of 19.5 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2013.  
d  Full year 2018 net tax benefit of $0.07 includes a second quarter $0.06 benefit from settling the IRS Stipulation of Settled Issues for the 2001 through 2010 tax years, offset by a fourth quarter $0.05 charge for our previously announced tax reinvestment strategy. In addition, the net benefit includes a $0.06 benefit  
in the fourth quarter for the settlement with the IRS of our 2011 through 2013 tax years.
 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
ADJUSTED FREE CASH FLOW (IN MILLIONS)   2018  2017
Operating cash flow, reported   $    310 $1,426
Less: Purchases of property, plant and equipment  316 319
Add: Proceed on disposals of property, plant and equipment  14 —
Free cash flow, reported   8 1,107
Plus: Restructuring and restructuring-related payments  89 72
Plus: Acquisition-related payments  205 95
Plus: Certain discrete tax payments  977 (239)
Plus: Litigation-related settlements  791 694
Adjusted free cash flow  $2,070 $1,729
Adjusted free cash flow growth from prior year  20%
Percentages are calculated using unrounded numbers and may not recalculate precisely due to rounding. Amounts may not add due to rounding. Boston Scientific Corporation
300 Boston Scientific Way
Marlborough, MA 01752-1234
bostonscientific.com© 2019 Boston Scientific Corporation or its affiliates.  
All rights reserved. PR2018