2019 Boston Scientific Performance Report Foreword April 13, As we publish this report, the world is facing unprecedented challenges amid the COVID - 19 pandemic.
During this uncertain time, our priority is to protect and  aid the health and safety of our employees, our physician customers and their patients.
That has always meant ensuring that o ur life - changing devices and  therapies would be available when needed.
Now, it also means finding new and creative ways to support the frontline healthcar e p roviders working tirelessly  to address the COVID - 19 pandemic.
We will continue to make decisions guided by our core values to support our global community.
To help meet the urgent needs of healthcare providers, we have contributed to COVID - 19 relief efforts globally through monetary  and supply donations, and by  providing engineering and manufacturing expertise and resources.
This includes donations of personal protective equipment and me dical equipment to local  hospitals and government agencies.
The company is also providing support to children, families and the most vulnerable through d irect financial contributions  to community and global non - profit organizations including Project HOPE and International Federation of Red  Cross and  Red  Crescent Societies .
It will take time for nations and local communities to heal from the devastating and wide - ranging impact of this complex situati on.
At Boston Scientific, we  have always found our purpose in working alongside healthcare providers to solve some of healthcare’s toughest challenges.
Ou r c ommitment is unwavering,  regardless of the obstacles we face today, and we will emerge from this challenging time stronger, together.
To learn more about our actions in response to the COVID - 19 pandemic, visit our  website .
Please note that the following report summarizes the company’s performance in 2019 and includes the letter to our stockholder s f rom our 2019 Annual Report,  which was written before the COVID - 19  global  pandemic.
2019 Performance ReportEvery day,    Boston Scientific is.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Throughout this document, unless otherwise noted, all revenue and other growth rates represent fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018.
Letter from the company’s 2019 Annual Report, written before the COVID-19 global pandemic.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations achieving success through our people.transforming the lives of our patients.
helping shape the future of our planet.
committing to responsible practices.2 Feature Patient Highlight 3 A Message to Our Stockholders 9 Financial Highlights 10 Our Mis sion and Core Values 11	 Boston 	Scientific 	at	a	Glance 12	 Boston 	Scientific 	by	the	Numbers 13		 Corporate 	Social	Responsibility 	  	 	 at	Boston	Scientific 16 Our Patients  22 Our People 44 Our Planet 51  Our Pr actices  65	 Non-GAAP 	Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Katharina Bauer: The Heart of a Champion  The sport of pole vaulting is not for the  faint	of	heart.
Competitors 	 sprint 	 down 	 a 	 track	and	launch	themselves 	into	the	air,	 summoning 	enough	speed	to	clear	a	  crossbar 	high	overhead.
For 	 29-year-old 	 Katharina 	Bauer,	 pole 	 vaulting 	 is 	 her 	 life’s 	 passion	—	or	as	she	says,	“her 	 big 	 love.”	  So	it’s	not	surprising 	that	Katharina’s 	  goal	is	to	take	her	passion	all	the	way	  to	the	Olympics.
There	was	a	time,	 however, 	 when 	  Katharina 	was	unsure	whether	her	  heart	was	up	to	the	challenge.
As 	 a 	  child,	she 	 was 	 diagnosed 	 with 	 a 	 condition 	 that	caused	her	heart	to	have	a	perilously 	  high	number	of	beats.
While 	 a 	 healthy 	 human	heart	beats	about	100,000	times	  a	day,	by 	 the 	 age 	 of 	 seven,	 Katharina 	  experienced 	6,000	extra	beats	daily.
In	2009,	 she 	 underwent 	 her 	 first 	 heart 	  surgery.
Her 	 condition 	 eventually 	  worsened 	to	18,000	extra	beats	per	  day,	leading 	 to 	 a 	 second 	 heart 	 surgery 	 eight	years	later.
Despite	these	challenges, 	 Katharina 	 con- tinued	to	compete 	as	a	professional 	pole	 vaulter	and	captured 	a	gold	medal	at	the	 2018	German	Indoor	Athletics 	Champion - ship.
At a regular health check after the  event,	her 	 doctor 	 detected 	 another 	 type 	 of	abnormal 	heartbeat 	—	one	Katharina 	learned	can	cause	ventricular 	fibrillation 	and	 sudden	cardiac	death.
The 	 next 	 day,	 she	  made	the	decision	to	get	a	subcutaneous   implantable 	cardioverter 	defibrillator 	(S-ICD).
In	April	2018,	 she 	 was 	 implanted 	 with 	 the 	 Boston	Scientific 	EMBLEM™ 	MRI	S-ICD	  System.
The	S-ICD 	 system,	 which 	 includes   a pulse generator and lead placed just  under	the	skin,	 monitors 	 Katharina’s 	 heart 	 and	sends	an	electrical 	shock	if	it	beats	  abnormally 	fast,	 protecting 	 her 	 from 	 sudden	 cardiac	arrest.
With 	 continued 	 medical 	 supervision, 	 Katharina 	 returned 	 to 	 training,	 describing 	her	defibrillator 	as	a	guardian 	 angel.
Six 	 weeks 	 after 	 the 	 procedure, 	 she cleared	4.20	meters	at	  a	competition.
Less 	 than	a	year	later,	 she 	 returned 	to	the	Ger- man	Indoor	Athletics 	 Championship 	and	 won	a	silver	medal.
“I	am	grateful	for	every	day,	 every 	 jump 	 and	every	training.
I 	 love 	 that 	 I 	 can 	 follow 	 my	passion,” 	 Katharina 	 says.
As 	 she 	 trains 	 to	qualify	for	the	next	Summer 	Olympics 	 and	become	the	first	Olympian 	with	a	  defibrillator 	to	compete, 	 Katharina 	 no 	  longer	fears	for	her	heart.
“I 	 turned 	 it 	 around,” 	 she 	 tells 	 us.
“ There 	 is 	 no 	 need 	  for	fear	as	long	as	you	feel	that	fire	inside.”” I am gr ateful for every  day, every jump and  every training.
I love  that I can follow my  passion.
There is  no need for fear as  long as you feel   that fire inside.”   Katharina Bauer,   Professional Pole Vaulter” I am gr ateful for every  day, every jump and  every training.
I love  that I can follow my  passion.
There is  no need for fear as  long as you feel   that fire inside.”   Katharina Bauer,   Professional Pole Vaulter Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  We	enter	2020	with	a	forty-year 	legacy	  of	advancing 	science	—	and	forty	years	 guided	by	our	mission	to	transform 	lives	 through	medical	solutions 	that	improve	the	 health	of	patients	around	the	world.
Our 	 company 	has	achieved 	a	great	deal	in	its	 four	decades, 	 and 	 those 	 accomplishments 	 put us on solid footing for the future.
As   we	move	into	the	next	decade,	 we 	 face 	 challenges 	from	the	growing	burden	of	 chronic	conditions 	among	an	aging	  population, 	 the 	 demands 	 of 	 value-based 	 care	and	new,	 disruptive 	 competitors.
These	trends	also	represent 	opportunities, 	 and	I	am	energized 	and	inspired	by	the	  significant 	advancements 	we	have	made	 and	will	continue 	to	make,	 and 	 by 	 the 	  lives	that	have	been	extended 	or	  enhanced 	because 	of	our	products.
In	the	last	year	alone,	 we 	 helped 	 more   than	30	million	patients.Katharina 	Bauer,	 a 	 pole 	 vault 	 competitor 	  for	the	German	National 	team,	 is 	 one 	 of 	 those	patients.
Since 	 she 	 was 	 young,	  Katharina has had a heart condition that  causes	her	heart	to	beat	irregularly.
In 	  April	2018,	 her 	 doctors 	 implanted 	 our 	 EMBLEM™ 	MRI	subcutaneous 	implantable 	 cardioverter 	defibrillator 	(S-ICD)	system.
It 	 monitors 	her	heart	and	sends	an	electrical 	 current	to	reset	it,	 if 	 necessary.
Six 	 weeks 	 after	her	device	was	implanted, 	 Katharina 	 started	c ompeting 	 again.
Within 	 a 	 year,	  she	won	a	silver	medal	at	the	German	 Indoor	Athletics 	Championship.
Today 	  she	has	ambitions 	to	compete 	in	the	  next	summer 	Olympics.
For	our	36,000	employees, 	 our 	 mission 	 and	stories	like	Katharina’s 	fuel	our	pursuit	 of	innovation 	—	for	the	sake	of	patients, 	 society	and	our	stockholders.
Despite	multiple	challenges 	in	2019,	 I’m 	 proud	of	how	strongly	our	global	team	 performed 	across	businesses, 	 functions 	 and	regions.
While 	 we 	 strive 	 to 	 deliver 	 high 	 quality	results	each	quarter,	 we 	 are 	 ever 	 vigilant	about	what	lies	further	ahead,	 and 	 the	ongoing 	need	to	adapt	to	the	rapidly	 evolving 	healthcare 	environment.
We 	 must 	 reduce	the	costs	of	improving 	outcomes 	 and	do	more	to	benefit	healthcare 	systems	 as	a	whole.
This 	 work 	 requires 	 a 	 relentless 	 sense	of	urgency.
We 	 call 	 it 	 winning 	 spirit,	 and	it	drives	us	to	meet	future	challenges 	 and to develop and deliver the highest  quality	and	safest	products 	and	solutions.
2019 Business Results  In	2019,	Boston 	 Scientific 	 strengthened 	 our	 portfolio 	and	capabilities 	w hile	d elivering 	 strong revenue and adjusted earnings per  share	growth.1	These	financials 	continue 	 a	more	than	five-year 	trend	of	excellent 	 performance.
During 	 this 	 time,	 Boston 	 1 Adjusted operating margin, adjusted earnings per share and related growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impacts of certain charges (credits) which may include amortization expense, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition/divestiture-related net charges and credits, restructuring and restructuring-related  net charges and credits, litigation-related net charges and credits, investment impairment charges, pension termination charges, EU MDR implementation charges, debt extinguishment net charges and credits, deferred tax expenses (benefits) and discrete tax items; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 65-67.
2 Organic revenue growth rates are  non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the first 12 months of sales from acquisitions in the periods for which there are no prior period related net sales.
Organic revenue growth also excludes the impact of the divestiture of our global embolic microspheres portfolio, a transaction entered into in connection  with obtaining the antitrust clearances required to complete the acquisition of BTG plc (BTG); see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 65-67.
3 Full year 2018 adjusted earnings per share was $1.47, which includes a $0.07 net tax benefit for the year.
Excluding this net tax benefit of $0.07, our 2018 adjusted earnings per share grew 11 percent.
2019  adjusted EPS growth including the aforementioned 2018 net tax benefit is 8 percent and normalized for the 2018 net tax benefit is 13 percent.
Full year 2018 net tax benefit of $0.07 includes our second quarter $0.06 benefit from settling the IRS Stipulation of Settled Issues for the 2001 through 2010 tax years, offset by a fourth quarter $0.05 charge for our tax reinvestment strategy.
In addition, the net benefit includes a $0.06 benefit in the fourth quarter for the settlement with the IRS of our 2011 through 2013 tax years.
Letter from the company’s 2019 Annual Report, written before the COVID-19 global pandemic.Dear Stockholders:   Mike Mahoney,   Chairman and   CEO Helped ~30 million patients       ~36,000 employees       Full-year sales: $10.735 billion       Organic sales growth: 7%2       5-Year total stockholder return: 241%Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Scientific 	has	grown	organic	sales2 at an  average	rate	of	7	percent.
We’ve 	 improved 	 adjusted 	operating 	margin1	380	basis	 points and used that to drive an average  14	percent	growth3 in adjusted earnings  per share1	over	the	five-year 	period.
On  12/31/19, 	 the 	 closing 	 price 	 of 	 our 	 common 	 stock	represented 	a	full-year	return	of	28	 percent,	 in 	 line 	 with 	 the 	 total 	 return 	 of 	 the 	 S&P	500	index.
Our 	 five- 	 and 	 three-year 	 total	stockholder 	returns	of	241	percent	  and	109	percent,	 respectively, 	 more 	 than 	 doubled 	the	total	returns	of	the	S&P	500.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  42019 2017 2018 2016 2015 2014$$1 Adjusted operating margin, adjusted earnings per share and related growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impacts of certain charges (credits) which may include amortization expense, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition/divestiture-related net charges and credits, restructuring and restructuring-related  net charges and credits, litigation-related net charges and credits, investment impairment charges, pension termination charges, EU MDR implementation charges, debt extinguishment net charges and credits, deferred tax expenses (benefits) and discrete tax items; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 65-67.
2 Organic revenue growth rates are  non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the first 12 months of sales from acquisitions in the periods for which there are no prior period related net sales.
Organic revenue growth also excludes the impact of the divestiture of our global embolic microspheres portfolio, a transaction entered into in connection  with obtaining the antitrust clearances required to complete the acquisition of BTG plc (BTG); see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 65-67.
3 Full year 2018 adjusted earnings per share was $1.47, which includes a $0.07 net tax benefit for the year.
Excluding this net tax benefit of $0.07, our 2018 adjusted earnings per share grew 11 percent.
2019  adjusted EPS growth including the aforementioned 2018 net tax benefit is 8 percent and normalized for the 2018 net tax benefit is 13 percent.
Full year 2018 net tax benefit of $0.07 includes our second quarter $0.06 benefit from settling the IRS Stipulation of Settled Issues for the 2001 through 2010 tax years, offset by a fourth quarter $0.05 charge for our tax reinvestment strategy.
In addition, the net benefit includes a $0.06 benefit in the fourth quarter for the settlement with the IRS of our 2011 through 2013 tax years.
4 Operational revenue growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; see non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 65-67.
5 We have three reportable segments comprised of Medical Surgical (MedSurg), Rhythm and Neuro, and Cardiovascular, which represent an aggregation of our operating segments that generate revenues from the sale of medical devices (Medical Devices).
We have included BTG’s Interventional Medicine business in our Peripheral Interventions   operating segment’s 2019 revenues from the date of acquisition.
6 Based on internal estimates.
7 We define Emerging Markets as the 20 countries that we believe have strong growth potential based on their economic conditions, healthcare sectors and our global capabilities.
Periodically, we assess our list of Emerging Markets; effective  January 1, 2019, we updated our list of Emerging Market countries.
We have revised prior year amounts to the current year’s presentation.
The revision had an immaterial impact on prior year Emerging Markets sales.
8 As part of our acquisition of BTG, we acquired a specialty pharmaceuticals business (Specialty Pharmaceuticals).
Subsequent to  acquisition, Specialty Pharmaceuticals is now a stand-alone operating segment presented alongside our Medical Device reportable segments.
9 Adjusted free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure that excludes from free cash flow the cash component of certain charges (credits) that are also excluded from adjusted net income as well as any cash tax  benefits of such charges, as detailed below.
In addition, we exclude payments or refunds that relate to resolving tax disputes related to prior periods.
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure that excludes net purchases of property, plant and equipment from cash provided by (used for) operating activities on a GAAP basis.
The GAAP measure that is most directly comparable to adjusted free cash flow and free cash flow is cash provided by (used for) operating activities on a GAAP basis.
See non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 65-67.
Letter from the company’s 2019 Annual Report, written before the COVID-19 global pandemic.Our	full-year	sales	in	2019	were	$10.735	 billion.
This 	 represents 	 11.1 	 percent 	 opera- tional	revenue	growth4 and 7.3 percent   organic	revenue	growth2	compared 	to	 2018.
Organic 	 revenue 	 growth 	 was 	 8.8 	 percent	in	MedSurg,5	3.3	percent	in	Rhythm	 and	Neuro5	and	9.3	percent	in	Cardiovas - cular.5	Our	global	performance 	was	strong,	 with	all	regions	delivering 	above-market 	 growth.6	Total	annual	sales	from	Emerging 	 Markets7	increased 	19.5	percent	on	an	  operational 	basis	compared 	to	2018.
Outside	of	our	three	reportable 	segments, 	Specialty 	Pharmaceuticals8 generated   revenue	of	$81	million	since	the	closing	  of	the	BTG	acquisition 	in	August	2019.
This	brings	the	full	year	pro-forma 	  pharmaceutical 	sales	to	$250	million.
We	also	delivered 	a	60	basis-point 	  improvement 	in	adjusted 	operating 	  margin1	and	increased 	full-year	adjusted 	 earnings per share1	to	$1.58,	 up 	 13 	 percent 	 over	the	prior	year	(normalized 	for	the	  7	cent	net	tax	benefit	in	2018).3	We	  generated 	more	than	$2	billion	of	 adjusted 	free	cash	flow9	while	continuing 	 to	increase	productivity, 	 reduce 	 costs,	  and	redirect	savings	to	high-growth 	  technologies that strengthen our   portfolio 	and	capabilities 	for	the	future.
Our	strategy	of	category 	leadership 	in	  key	markets	and	portfolio 	diversification 	 into	high	growth	adjacencies 	is	working.
We	expect	to	continue 	to	expand	our	  presence 	in	new	markets	and	regions	  and	to	make	our	technologies 	accessible 	  to	more	people	in	need.
Our 	 goal 	 is 	 to 	  continue to execute against our strategic  plan	objectives, 	 further 	 increase 	 our 	  organic	growth	profile,	 and 	 deliver 	  top-tier	sales	and	adjusted 	earnings 	  per	share	growth	over	the	next	five	  years.
We 	 believe 	 that 	 the 	 long-term 	  combination 	of	consistent, 	 above-market 	 revenue	growth,	 adjusted 	 operating 	  margin	expansion, 	 targeted 	 double-digit 	 adjusted 	earnings 	per	share	growth,	 and 	 the	improved 	ability	to	generate 	—	and	 strategically 	deploy	—	a	strong	free	 Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return *   Boston Scientific Corporation   S&P Health Care Equipment   S&P * $100 in vested on 12/31/14 in stock   or index, including reinvestment   of dividends.
Fiscal year ending   December 31.
© 2020 Standard & Poor’s, a division  of S&P Global.
All rights reserved.
2019 adjusted EPS growth: 14%1,3       85+ product launches       EXALT ™ Model D is the world's first and only single-use duodenoscope to be cleared by the FDA.cash	flow	position	Boston	Scientific 	to	  continue to drive stockholder value.
Investing for Growth Our approach to innovation includes   a	mix	of	organic	research 	programs, 	  collaborations, 	 and 	 strategic 	 investments 	 and	acquisitions 	that	enrich	the	medical	 specialties 	we	serve.
Our 	 products 	 are 	  used	to	help	diagnose 	or	treat	complex 	  diseases 	and	conditions 	across	multiple	 fields:	cardiovascular, 	 respiratory, 	 digestive, 	 neurological, 	 urological 	 and 	 pelvic 	 health.
Our	category 	leadership 	strategy	to	deepen	 our portfolio in these areas is helping us  create	value	for	patients, 	 physicians 	 and 	 payers.
And 	 it’s 	 enabling 	 us 	 to 	 grow 	 faster 	 than	the	markets	in	which	we	compete,6  and	faster	than	most	of	our	peers.
By 	  2022,	we 	 expect 	 that 	 our 	 investments 	 in 	 technology 	development 	and	acquisitions 	 will	allow	us	to	introduce 	solutions 	for	  unmet	clinical	needs	in	adjacent 	markets	 that	accelerate 	our	served	market	growth	 rate	to	approximately 	6	percent.6Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  5Innovative Technologies Solve   Urgent Challenges  Over	the	course	of	2019,	 we 	 executed 	  more	than	85	product	launches 	and	 received 	several	significant 	regulatory 	 clearances, 	 including 	 in 	 our 	 Endoscopy, 	  Neuromodulation 	and	Interventional 	  Cardiology 	businesses.
Our	Endoscopy 	business 	introduced 	the	 EXALT™	Model	D,	 the 	 world’s 	 first 	 and 	  only	single-use 	duodenoscope 	to	be	 cleared	by	the	U.S.	 Food 	 and 	 Drug 	  Administration 	(FDA).
Duodenoscopes, 	 which	are	used	during	endoscopic 	  procedures 	to	examine 	the	pancreatic 	  and	bile	ducts,	 treat 	 severe,	 often 	 life-threatening, 	 conditions.
Scope 	  cleaning 	and	reprocessing 	are	complex 	 procedures 	that	are	vulnerable 	to	  manual	error.
According 	 to 	 a 	 study 	  mandated 	by	the	FDA,	 one 	 in 	 twenty 	  reusable 	duodenoscopes 	is	contaminated 	  with	disease-causing 	pathogens.
The 	 EXALT-D	Duodenoscope 	was	granted	 Breakthrough 	Device	Designation 	by	  the	FDA,	 a 	 program 	 that 	 helps 	 patients 	 receive	timely	access	to	technologies 	  that	have	the	potential 	to	more	  effectively 	diagnose 	or	treat	life-  threatening 	or	irreversibly 	debilitating 	 diseases or conditions.
10 1.5 Tesla MRI conditional when all conditions of use are met.
11 ACURATE neo™ Aortic Valve System is CE Marked.
In the U.S., IDE device and not available for sale.
Letter from the company’s 2019 Annual Report, written before the COVID-19 global pandemic.Our	Neuromodulation 	business 	launched 	 the	Vercise™ 	Primary	Cell	(PC)	and	Vercise	 Gevia™	Deep	Brain	Stimulation 	(DBS)	  Systems	with	the	Cartesia™ 	Directional 	 Lead.
The 	 new 	 systems 	 treat 	 the 	 symptoms 	 of	Parkinson’s 	disease	by	delivering 	  precisely 	targeted 	and	personalized 	  electrical 	stimulation 	in	the	brain	and	  are	designed 	to	provide	symptom 	relief	 and	better	control	of	unwanted 	side	  effects.
We 	 also 	 received 	 FDA 	 approval 	  of	ImageReady™ 	MRI	labeling	for	the	  Vercise	Gevia	DBS	System,	 which 	 allows 	  the	device	to	be	used	in	a	full-body 	  magnetic 	resonance 	imaging	(MRI)	  environment.The	approval 	of	the	LOTUS	Edge™ Aortic  Valve	System	added	to	our	suite	of	  Structural Heart product solutions.
These  now	include	the	SENTINEL™ 	Cerebral	  Protection 	System	and	the	WATCHMAN™ 	 Left Atrial Appendage Closure Device as  well	as	the	ACURATE 	neo™	Aortic	Valve	 System.11	The	LOTUS	Edge	valve	system	  is	the	only	fully	repositionable 	valve	  system	on	the	market;	 it 	 is 	 approved 	  for	patients	with	severe	aortic	stenosis	  who	are	considered 	at	high	risk	for	surgical	 valve	replacement 	through	open	heart	 surgery.
The 	 SENTINEL™ 	 Cerebral 	 Protection 	invasive	device	used	to	improve	physical	 function and reduce pain in patients   with	moderate 	lumbar	spinal	stenosis.
This	addition	to	our	pain	management 	 portfolio 	—	now	composed 	of	the	Spectra	  WaveWriter™ 	Spinal	Cord	Stimulator 	  System,	the 	 Vertiflex® 	 procedure 	 and 	  radiofrequency 	ablation	therapy	—	gives	 physicians 	another	non-opioid 	pain	  management 	solution	that	can	help	 improve	quality	of	life	for	the	growing	 number	of	patients	suffering 	from	  chronic	pain.
All 	 of 	 our 	 evidence-based 	 solutions are helping clinicians provide  personalized 	treatments 	along	the	pain	 care	continuum.System,	the 	 only 	 device 	 cleared 	 by 	 the 	  FDA to protect patients against the risk   of stroke during transcatheter aortic heart  valve	replacement 	(TAVR),	 is 	 now 	 used 	  in	an	estimated 	20	percent	of	all	TAVR	  procedures 	in	the	United	States.
Acquisitions to Strengthen Our Future In	2019,	we 	 made 	 two 	 strategic 	 investments 	 to	support	our	category 	leadership 	strategy	 and	presence 	in	faster	growing	markets.
We	acquired 	BTG	plc.,	 adding 	 therapeutic 	 technologies 	for	patients	with	liver	  and	kidney	cancers	to	our	interventional 	  oncology 	portfolio.
The 	 acquisition 	  also gives us a vascular portfolio for   the	treatment 	of	deep	vein	thrombosis, 	  pulmonary 	embolism, 	 deep 	 venous 	  obstruction 	and	superficial 	venous	  disease.
We 	 are 	 now 	 able 	 to 	 support 	  physicians 	who	treat	some	of	the	most	 challenging 	diseases 	with	a	strengthened 	 commercial 	infr astructure 	 and 	 offer 	 our	 customers 	comprehensive 	technologies 	 backed	by	clinical	evidence.
In	Neuromodulation, 	 we 	 completed 	  the	acquisition 	of	Vertiflex, 	 Inc.,	 which 	  developed 	the	Superion® 	Indirect	  Decompression 	System,	 a 	 minimally 	 LOTUS Edge ™ is the only fully repositionable valve system on the market.
SENTINEL ™ Cerebral Protection System is used in 20% of all U.S. TAVR procedures.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations “ In 2019 , we invested more  than $1 billion in research  and development to fuel  our pipeline; and nearly 5,000 patients participated in more than 100 global  clinical trials with Boston Scientific devices.”   Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  6Collaborating to Advance Science Across	our	businesses, 	 we 	 invested 	  more	than	$1	billion	in	research 	and	  development 	in	2019	to	fuel	our	pipeline	 and	create	value	for	our	customers 	and	  the	patients	whom	we	serve	together.
To accelerate the pace of discoveries   and	bring	new	treatments 	to	patients, 	  collaboration 	is	key.
At 	 our 	 global 	 design 	 centers	in	the	United	States,	 Costa 	 Rica,	 Ireland,	India,	 China,	 Puerto 	 Rico 	 and 	 the 	 United	Kingdom, 	 we 	 take 	 a 	 collaborative 	 approach 	to	research	and	development.
Clinicians, 	 researchers 	 and 	 industry 	  work	side	by	side,	 evaluating 	 ideas,	  developing 	prototypes, 	 and 	 conducting 	 feasibility 	studies.
In	2019,	Mayo 	 Clinic 	 and 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 announced 	Motion	Medical,	 a 	 new 	 joint 	 innovation 	accelerator 	that	aims	to	  accelerate 	the	development 	of	minimally 	 invasive technologies for interventional  cardiology, 	 heart 	 rhythm 	 management, 	  endoscopy, 	 neuromodulation 	 and 	 urology.
In	doing	so,	 our 	 organizations 	 will 	 now 	 share	certain	intellectual 	property 	and	  work	together 	to	rapidly	develop	medical	 devices	to	address	unmet	clinical	needs.We	also	maintained 	a	strong	base	of	 clinical	research 	to	support	the	safety	and	 efficacy	of	our	devices,	 with 	 data 	 gathered 	  through	bench	testing,	 randomized 	 controlled 	trials,	 and 	 ongoing 	 real-world 	 evidence to support sustaining innovation  as	well	as	new	product	approvals.
In 	 2019,	 nearly	5,000	patients	participated 	in	more	 than	100	global	clinical	trials	with	Boston	 Scientific 	devices.
Trial	highlights 	include:     The	RANGER 	II	SFA	trial	and	the	IMPERIAL 	 trials	strengthen 	the	growing	body	of	  evidence 	supporting 	the	safety,	 efficacy 	  and	durability 	of	our	Ranger™ 	Drug-   Coated	Balloon	(DCB)	and	Eluvia™	 Drug-Eluting 	Vascular 	Stent	(DES)	for	 patients	with	peripheral 	artery	disease.
$1+ billion invested in research and development       The EMBLEM ™ S-ICD System has been implanted in nearly 75,000 patients worldwide.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations North America Maple Grove, USA St. Paul, USA Valencia, USAEuropeParis, FranceRatingen, Germany Milan, Italy   Warsaw, PolandMadrid, SpainAsiaBeijing, China   Chengdu, ChinaShanghai, China Gurgaon, India   Miyazaki, Japan Tokyo, Japan Africa Johannesburg,  South Africa “ At our global design c enters in the United States, Costa Rica,  Ireland, India, China, Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom,   we take a collaborative approach to research and development.
Clinicians, researchers and industry work side by side,   evaluating ideas, developing prototypes, and conducting feasibility studies.”Expanding Our Footprint Through Medical Education Boston Scientific provides local training programs through our 15 Institutes for Advancing  Science in the Americas, Africa, Asia and Europe.
Letter from the company’s 2019 Annual Report, written before the COVID-19 global pandemic.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  7   	The	UNTOUCHED 	study	confirmed 	the	 value	of	our	EMBLEM™ 	S-ICD	System	for	 a	broad	group	of	ICD-indicated 	patients, 	 enabling 	them	to	avoid	the	long-term 	 complications 	associated 	with	trans- venous	ICD	leads.
The 	 study 	 evaluated 	 the	safety	and	efficacy	of	the	EMBLEM™ 	 S-ICD	System,	 a 	 device 	 that 	 has 	  been	implanted 	in	nearly	75,000	  patients	worldwide.
The	AF-FICIENT 	I	study	showed	positive	  safety	and	efficacy	data	for	the	  LUMINIZE™ 	RF	Balloon	Catheter, 	 our 	 single-shot 	ablation	technology 	for	  the	isolation 	of	pulmonary 	veins	(PV)	 when	treating	patients	with	atrial	  fibrillation 	(AF).
A	randomized 	clinical	trial	with	our	 Rezūm™ 	Water	Vapor	Therapy, 	 a 	  minimally 	invasive	treatment 	for	benign	 prostatic 	h yperplasia 	(BPH),	demonstr ated	  that	four	years	after	treatment, 	 the	d evice 	 provides 	durable	results	and	preserves 	 sexual	f unction.
Mor e 	 than 	 35,000 	 men 	 have	been	successfully 	treated	with	the	 Rezūm	System.
And 	 we 	 have 	 worked 	 with	major	insurance 	providers 	to	extend	 coverage 	of	the	procedure, 	 providing 	 even	more	men	with	access	to	this	  transformative 	technology.
The	VIRTUS	trial	with	12-month 	  data	demonstrated 	that	patients	  treated	with	the	VICI	VENOUS 	STENT®	 System	for	iliac	and	femoral	vein	  obstructions 	exhibit	a	high	rate	of	  open target lesions.Medical	education 	is	also	a	vital	component 	  of safe procedure adoption and our   collaboration 	with	physicians.
We 	 continue 	  to	provide	local	training	programs 	through	 our	15	Institutes 	for	Advancing 	Science	in	 the	Americas, 	 Africa,	 Asia 	 and 	 Europe.
We 	  recently	completed 	the	center	in	Chengdu, 	 China	that	will	expand	our	footprint 	and	 enable	us	to	train	thousands 	of	doctors	  in	Central	and	Western	China.
The	EVOLVE	Short	DAPT	(dual	antiplatelet 	 therapy)	study	with	our	SYNERGY™ 	Bio- absorbable 	Polymer	Stent	demonstrated 	 a	low	rate	of	adverse	events	for	patients	 at	a	high	risk	for	bleeding 	who	s top	D APT 	 at	three	months.
The 	 study 	 evaluated 	  abbreviated 	antipla telet 	 therapy 	 for 	 patients	at	high	risk	for	bleeding 	after	 undergoing 	percutaneous 	coronary 	  intervention.
The 	 results 	 expand 	 the 	 body 	 of evidence supporting the excellent   clinical	outcomes 	of	our	SYNERGY 	BP	 Stent.
We 	 plan 	 to 	 submit 	 these 	 data 	 to 	 regulatory 	authorities 	to	support	an	  indication 	for	use	in	patients	who	  are at a high risk of experiencing a   bleeding 	event.
The	OPTION	trial	has	the	potential 	to	 expand	the	number	of	patients	with	  atrial	fibrillation 	who	can	receive	a	left	 atrial	appendage 	closure	(LAAC)	as	an	 alternative to lifelong anticoagulants —  and	their	potential 	side	effects.
The 	 trial 	 compares 	the	safety	and	effectiveness 	  of	the	next-generation 	WATCHMAN 	FLX™	 left	atrial	appendage 	closure	platform 	  to	first-line	oral	anticoagulants 	for	  stroke	risk	reduction 	in	patients	with	 non-valvular 	atrial	fibrillation 	(AF)	who	 undergo 	a	cardiac	ablation	procedure.
35,000+ men with BPH have been successfully treated with the Rezūm ™ System       15 Institutes for Advancing Science worldwideFeature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations " As we move int o the next decade, we face challenges   from the growing burden of chronic conditions among an  aging population, the demands of value-based care and  new, disruptive competitors.
These trends also represent opportunities, and I am energized and inspired by the   significant advancements we have made and will continue  to make, and by the lives that have been extended or  enhanced because of our products."  Letter from the company’s 2019 Annual Report, written before the COVID-19 global pandemic.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  8Fostering 	diversity	and	inclusion 	in	the	 workplace 	requires	a	deliberate 	and	  consistent 	effort	as	well	as	a	willingness 	  to	engage	in	difficult	conversations 	and	 learn	from	them.
Our 	 Global 	 Council 	 for 	 Inclusion 	and	more	than	4,500	employees 	 from	nine	Employee 	Resource 	Groups	 are	at	the	heart	of	this	work.
They 	 provide 	 forums	for	us	to	learn	from	one	another,	 celebrate 	our	diversity	and	develop	  inclusive leadership skills.
Working	in	health	care	gives	us	the	  privilege to help advance science and  improve	patient	outcomes.
That 	 privilege 	 comes	with	a	responsibility 	to	work	in	  a	sustainable 	way	that	enriches 	our	  communities.
We’ve 	 set 	 aggressive 	  environmental 	goals	to	do	our	part.
In 	  2019,	we 	 continued 	 our 	 push 	 toward 	  environmental 	impact.
By 	 year 	 end,	 we	reduced	our	greenhouse 	gas	  emissions 	47	percent	and	decreased 	  water	consumption 	30	percent	relative	  to	our	2009	measurement 	baseline.
Our 	 Heredia	and	Coyol,	 Costa 	 Rica 	 sites 	 are 	 already	carbon-neutral, 	 and 	 we 	 are 	 on 	  track	with	our	longer-term 	goals	of	reaching 	 100	percent	renewable 	energy	usage	by	 2024	and	being	carbon	neutral	in	all	our	 manufacturing 	and	key	distribution 	sites	 by	2030.
During 	 the 	 past 	 two 	 years,	 we 	 increased 	the	number	of	patients	we	  serve	by	20	percent	while	at	the	same	  time	reducing 	our	carbon	footprint 	by	  11	percent	at	these	sites.
I’m	proud	of	the	progress 	we	are	making.
Our	employees 	have	made	Boston	  Scientific 	an	admired 	company 	with	  numerous 	recognitions, 	 including 	 being 	 named	among	FORBES/ JUST	Capital	100	 Most	JUST	Companies, 	 Newsweek’s 	  America’s 	Most	Responsible 	Companies, 	 FORTUNE 	World’s	Most	Admired 	  Companies, 	 Glassdoor’s 	 Employees’ 	  Choice	for	Best	Places	to	Work	and	a	  Derwent 	Top	100	Global	Innovator.Looking Ahead Our	team	and	technology 	pipeline	  have	never	been	stronger, 	 and 	 I 	 remain 	 confident 	in	our	strategy	and	ability	to	 address	evolving 	customer 	needs	in	  the	markets	in	which	we	compete.
We 	  anticipate 	continued 	growth	across	  most	of	our	businesses 	and	regions	  based	on	the	strength 	and	diversity	  of our portfolio and our talented and   engaged 	employees.
On	behalf	of	all	of	us	at	Boston	Scientific, 	  I	want	to	thank	our	Board	of	Directors 	  for	their	service.
I 	 also 	 thank 	 you,	 our 	  stockholders, 	 for 	 your 	 continued 	 support,	 and	our	employees 	for	their	unwavering 	 commitment 	to	our	mission	and	values.
I	look	forward	to	working	together 	to	  make	even	greater	contributions 	to	  advance 	science	for	life	in	the	year	  and decade ahead.
Sincerely, Mike	Mahoney 	  Chairman, 	 President 	 and 	  Chief	Executive 	Officer March	10,	 2020People and Citizenship Delivering 	high	performance 	requires	  excellence 	across	our	operations, 	 and 	  we	are	a	stronger 	and	more	innovative 	 company 	when	we	cultivate 	a	diverse	 and	inclusive 	workplace 	that	reflects	the	 patients, 	 customers 	 and 	 communities 	 we 	 serve.
In	 2019,	 we 	 made 	 strong 	 progress 	 toward	our	diversity	and	inclusion 	goals	 to	increase	the	representation 	of	women	 and	multicultural 	talent12	in	mid-manage - ment	roles.
By 	 2023,	 our 	 goal 	 is 	 to 	 increase 	 representation 	of	these	groups	by	three	 percentage 	points.
Pay 	 equity 	 has 	 also 	 long 	 been	a	focus.
An 	 independent 	 analysis13   of	employee 	pay	equity	showed	that	  our	global	workforce 	had	a	less	than	  1	percent	statistical 	difference 	in	pay	  along gender lines.
During the past two years, we increased the number of patients we serve by 20% while at the same time reducing our carbon footprint by 11%.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations 12 In the U.S. and Puerto Rico, defined as African American/Black, Asian, Hispanic/Latino, American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races.
Excludes any U.S. Puerto Rico employees where the ethnicity is “Unallocated.”    13 Independent pay equity analysis conducted by Resolution Economics, LLC.
Letter from the company’s 2019 Annual Report, written before the COVID-19 global pandemic.“ Delivering high per formance requires excellence across   our operations, and we are a stronger and more innovative  company when we cultivate a diverse and inclusive  workplace that reflects the patients, customers and  communities we serve.”  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  911% 8% 8% 02 4 6 810 2019201820177% 7%7%   P ercent of    Reported  Operational Consolidated   2019 Sales by Region (dollars in millions)  Sales  Growth4 N et Sales (%)  		U.S.	 	 $ 		 6,097 		 	 10.1%	 56.8% 		EMEA	(Europe,	 Middle 	 East 	 and 	 Africa)	 	 2,264 		 	 9.4%	 21.1% 		APAC	(Asia-Pacific)	 	 	 1,898 		 	 12.3%	 17.7% 		LACA	(Latin	America	and	Canada)	 	 395 		 	 7.3%	 3.7% Medical Devices5 	 	 10,654 		 	 10.2%	 99.2% Specialty Pharmaceuticals8	 	 81 		 	 	 n/a 	 	 0.8% Net Sales    $10,735			 11.
1%	 100.0%    P ercent of    Reported  Operational Consolidated   2019 Sales by Product Category (dollars in millions)  Sales  Growth4 N et Sales (%)     MedSurg  		Endoscopy	 	 $		1, 894 		 	 9.2%	 17.6%	    		Urology	and	Pelvic	Health	 	 1,413 		 	 14.7%	 13.2% Rhythm and Neuro  		Car diac 	 Rhythm 	 Management	 	1 ,939	 		 1 .2%	 18.1%    		Electrophysiology	 	 329 		 	 7.5%	 3.1%   		Neuromodulation	 	 873 		 	 13.1%	 8.1% Cardiovascular  		Interventional 	Cardiology	 	 2,816 		 	 11.0%	 26.2%    		Peripheral 	Interventions	 	 1,392 		 	 19.1%	 13.0% Medical Devices5	 	 	 10,654 		 	 10.2%	 99.2% Specialty Pharmaceuticals8	 	 81 		 	 	 n/a 	 	 0.8% Net Sales    $10,735			 11.
1%	 100.0%1   Adjust ed operating margin, adjusted earnings per share and related  growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude the impacts of certain  charges (credits) which may include amortization expense, goodwill   and intangible asset impairment charges, acquisition/divestiture- related net charges and credits, restructuring and restructuring-related net charges and credits, litigation-related net charges and credits,  investment impairment charges, pension termination charges, EU MDR  implementation charges, debt extinguishment net charges and credits,  deferred tax expenses (benefits) and discrete tax items; see non-GAAP  reconciliations on pages 65-67.
2  Or ganic revenue growth rates are non-GAAP measures that exclude   the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the first 12 months of sales from acquisitions in the periods for which there are no prior   period related net sales.
Organic revenue growth also excludes the  impact of the divestiture of our global embolic microspheres portfolio,  a transaction entered into in connection with obtaining the antitrust  clearances required to complete the acquisition of BTG plc (BTG); see  non-GAAP reconciliations on pages 65-67.
3  F ull year 2018 adjusted earnings per share was $1.47, which includes   a $0.07 net tax benefit for the year.
Excluding this net tax benefit of  $0.07, our 2018 adjusted earnings per share grew 11 percent.
2019  adjusted EPS growth including the aforementioned 2018 net tax benefit is 8 percent and normalized for the 2018 net tax benefit is 13 percent.
Full year 2018 net tax benefit of $0.07 includes our second quarter $0.06  benefit from settling the IRS Stipulation of Settled Issues for the 2001  through 2010 tax years, offset by a fourth quarter $0.05 charge for our  tax reinvestment strategy.
In addition, the net benefit includes a $0.06 benefit in the fourth quarter for the settlement with the IRS of our 2011  through 2013 tax years.
4  Oper ational revenue growth rates are non-GAAP measures that   exclude the impact of foreign currency fluctuations; see non-GAAP  reconciliations on pages 65-67.
5  W e have three reportable segments comprised of Medical Surgical  (MedSurg), Rhythm and Neuro, and Cardiovascular, which represent an aggregation of our operating segments that generate revenues from   the sale of medical devices (Medical Devices).
We have included BTG’s   Interventional Medicine business in our Peripheral Interventions   operating segment’s 2019 revenues from the date of acquisition.
As par t of our acquisition of BTG, we acquired a specialty pharmaceu - ticals business (Specialty Pharmaceuticals).
Subsequent to acquisition,  Specialty Pharmaceuticals is now a stand-alone operating segment  presented alongside our Medical Device reportable segments.
P ercentages are calculated using unrounded numbers and may not   calculate precisely due to rounding.
Amounts may not add due to   rounding.
Financial HighlightsFeature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Operational Revenue Growth2,  Operational revenue growth   Organic revenue growth  Adjusted earnings per share growth  Adjusted earnings per share growth, excluding 2018 net tax benefit3Adjusted Operating Margin1Adjusted Earnings Per Share Growth1,2018201713% 11%8% 17% 13% 0510 15 20 20192018201726.1% 25.5% 25% Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Every day, Boston Scientific is.
focusing on our mission.
We are dedicated to transforming lives through innovative medical   solutions that improve the health of patients around the world.Our work is guided by core values  that define Boston Scientific culture and empower our employees: Caring We	act	with	integrity	and	compassion 	  to	support	patients, 	 customers, 	 our 	  communities 	and	each	other.
Diversity  We	embrace 	diversity	and	value	unique	 talents,	ideas 	 and 	 experiences 	 of 	 our 	  employees.
Global Collaboration  We	work	collaboratively 	to	pursue	global	  opportunities that extend the reach   of	our	medical	solutions.
High Performance  We	strive	for	high	performance 	to	benefit	 our	patients, 	 clinicians 	 and 	 stockholders.
Meaningful Innovation  We	foster	an	environment 	of	creativity 	to	 transform 	new	ideas	into	breakthrough 	 services and solutions that create value   for	patients, 	 customers 	 and 	 employees.
Winning Spirit  We	adapt	to	change	and	act	with	speed,	 agility	and	accountability 	to	further	  improve	patient	care.BostonScientific2019PerformanceReport 11BostonScientificataGlanceFeaturePatient HighlightAMessageto OurStockholdersFinancial HighlightsOurMissionand CoreValuesBostonScientific ataGlanceBostonScientific bytheNumbersCorporateSocial ResponsibilityOurPatients OurPeople OurPlanet OurPractices Non-GAAP Reconciliations BostonScientifictransformslivesthroughinnovativemedicalsolutionsthat improvethehealthofpatientsaroundtheworld.Asaglobalmedical technologyleaderfornearly40years,weadvancescienceforlifeby providingabroadrangeofhighperformancesolutionsthataddressunmet patientneedsandreducethecostofhealthcare.
Neuromoduatino:C Electronicimplantabletechnologiesthathelppatients managedebilitatingchronicpainandneurologicalconditions ctrdnthyMgiMmEt:tpeme:iC Technologiesthattreatirregularheartrhythms andheartfailureandhelpprotectagainstsuddencardiacarrest saehirovMgPnoaopgC Abroadrangeofmappingandtreatmenttechnologiesfor diagnosingandtreatingheartrhythmdisorders U:ierHe:ino:tactrdnoaopgC Minimallyinvasiveinnovationsthathelpimprovethe livesofpatientslivingwithheartandvascularconditions s:doPhovgC Minimallyinvasivedevicesfordiagnosingandtreatinggastrointestinal andpulmonaryconditions PernvMertaU:ierHe:ino:PC Devicesfordiagnosisandminimallyinvasivetreatmentsof peripheralvasculardiseaseandcancer Uroaopgt:dPeaHnhHetaiMC Solutionsforurological,urogynecologicaland gynecologicaldiseases AspartofouracquisitionofBTG,weacquiredtheSpecialtyPharmaceuticalsbusiness, whichisastand-aloneoperatingsegment.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  41,000 +  employee   volunteer hoursBoston Scientific by the Numbers* ~30 million  patients servedTop 30   America’s  Most JUST  Companies** Reduced greenhouse  gas emissions by  76,000 + tonnes***Recycled 8,900 +    tonnes of solid waste ~36,000  employees in  100+ countriesFeature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations 99%+ gender pay  equity Carbon neutrality   in manufacturing and  key distribution sites   for all products by 2030$ 85 million +  educational and charitable   giving and medical research  ~$1 billion   invested in research   and development$10.7 billion   in full-year sales * All figures reflect 2019 results.
** Forbes and JUST Capital JUST 100 rankings    *** Compared to 2009 baseline  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  13Corporate Social Responsibility at Boston Scientific Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations At	Boston	Scientific, 	 we 	 are 	 united 	 by 	 a 	 deep	caring	for	human	life.
Our 	 work 	  in	health	care	comes	with	a	profound 	 responsibility 	to	the	people	around	us.
Guided	by	our	core	values,	 we 	 are 	  committed 	to	shaping	a	better	future	  for	patients, 	 customers, 	 employees 	 as 	  well	as	the	communities 	in	which	we	  live	and	work.
Our 	 teams 	 are 	 dedicated 	 to	transforming 	lives	through	innovative 	 medical	solutions 	that	improve	the	health	 of	patients	around	the	globe	—	while	  also	making	measurable 	contributions 	  to	the	world	we	all	share.
Engaging with Stakeholders  In	keeping	with	our	values,	 we 	 act 	 with 	 integrity	in	our	operational 	processes 	  and	all	of	our	business 	relationships.
Throughout 	the	company, 	 we 	 are 	 focused 	 on	our	obligations 	as	a	corporate 	citizen.
These	responsibilities 	include	continually 	 working	to	better	understand 	and	  anticipate 	the	company’s 	environmental, 	  social	and	economic 	impacts.
A	company-wide 	focus	on	Corporate 	  Social	Responsibility 	(CSR)	is	an	essential 	 aspect	of	our	citizenship.
Our 	 CSR 	  strategy	and	practices 	are	informed 	by	  conversations 	with	diverse	stakeholders 	 inside	and	outside	the	company 	—	  locally,	nationally 	 and 	 globally.
In 	 our 	 collaborations 	and	other	business 	  relationships, 	 we 	 work 	 with 	 organizations 	 who	share	our	commitment 	to	the	  people	we	serve.
Our Approach To	ensure	our	efforts	are	aligned	with	the	 United	Nations	Sustainable 	Development 	 Goals	(SDGs),	 in 	 2017 	 we 	 completed 	 a 	 baseline 	materiality 	assessment 	in	accor- dance	with	the	internationally 	accredited 	 Global	Reporting 	Initiative 	(GRI)	guidelines.
The	assessment 	identified 	CSR	issues	of	 greatest	importance 	to	Boston	Scientific 	 and	our	stakeholders.
We 	 define 	 these 	 issues	as	material	aspects.
Our	material	aspects	align	with	10	of	the	 17	SDGs	where	we	believe	we	can	make	 a	meaningful 	difference.
Our 	 teams 	 track	 how	our	activities 	intersect 	with	the	SDGs	 and	how	we	can	most	effectively 	join	with	 others	to	contribute 	to	these	goals.
In 	 2019,	 we	increased 	the	scope	of	our	CSR	metrics	 and	disclosures, 	 and 	 we 	 made 	 it 	 a 	 priority	 to	report	at	the	GRI	Comprehensive 	level	  by	2024,	 if 	 not 	 sooner.
Boston Scientific   employees participating  in Volunteer Day in   Minnesota.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  14As	a	global	medical	device	manufacturer, 	 our 	 work 	 is 	 naturally 	 focused 	  on	health	and	well-being.
In 	 2019,	 our 	 portfolio 	 of 	 innovative 	 products 	 and 	 solutions 	helped	more	than	30	million	patients	live	better	and	longer	lives.
We	continue 	to	make	investments 	in	research 	and	development 	and	  clinical	trials	to	develop	new	technologies 	and	breakthrough 	therapies.
Our	patient-centric 	focus	supports 	expanded 	access	to	medical	care	for	  underserved 	populations 	around	the	world.
We 	 invest 	 significantly 	 in 	 the 	 well-being 	of	our	employees 	and	their	families,	 and 	 we 	 support 	 the 	  communities 	where	we	work	and	live.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Boston Scientific Supports the SDGs To	ensure	we	design,	 test,	 manufacture 	 and 	 distribute 	 safe 	 and 	 effective	  devices,	quality 	 is 	 integrated 	 into 	 every 	 aspect 	 and 	 stage 	 of 	 our 	 work.
We	 support	initiatives 	to	reduce	waste	through	sustainable 	packaging, 	 recycling, 	 reuse	and	inventory 	management.
We 	 also 	 maintain 	 strategic 	 partnerships, 	 many	with	small	and	diverse	suppliers.
These 	 partnerships 	 help 	 us 	 deliver	  improved 	value	to	our	customers, 	 and 	 they 	 support 	 economic 	 development 	 and	sustainable 	production 	in	the	communities 	where	we	live	and	work.Our	planet	is	facing	significant 	challenges, 	 and 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 is 	 committed 	 to	identifying 	and	mitigating 	risks	to	the	climate	and	environment.
To 	 do 	 this,	 and	contribute 	to	SDGs	7	and	13,	 we 	 have 	 established 	 aggressive 	 targets,	 such	as	our	goal	to	be	carbon	neutral	by	2030	at	all	key	manufacturing 	 and	distribution 	sites.
We 	 are 	 also 	 focused 	 on 	 moving 	 to 	 renewable 	 energy 	 sources	and	reducing 	our	environmental 	impact.
We 	 monitor 	 our 	 progress 	 through	an	established 	energy	management 	system.
SDG	5	and	SDG	10	relate	directly	to	our	core	diversity	value,	 which 	 we  define	as	inclusion, 	equity	and	opportunity 	for	all.
By 	 embracing 	 unique 	 backgrounds 	and	perspectives, 	 we 	 create 	 a 	 more 	 rewarding 	 place 	 to 	 work.
Our	Diversity 	and	Inclusion 	(D&I)	efforts	focus	on	four	strategic 	pillars:	  career,	culture,	 commerce 	 and 	 community.
In 	 2019,	 we 	 made 	 strong 	  progress 	in	achieving 	our	“10/20/ 40 	 by 	 2020”	 objectives 	 aimed 	 at 	 reshaping 	 the	company’s 	core	mid-level 	employee 	base,	 and 	 we 	 continue 	 to 	 set 	  higher	goals.
We 	 are 	 an 	 equal 	 opportunity 	 employer, 	 committed 	 to 	  delivering 	fair	and	equitable 	compensation 	and	benefits	programs.
With 	 our	Close	the	Gap	program, 	 we 	 are 	 helping 	 to 	 address 	 health 	 inequities, 	 increasing 	diverse	patient	enrollment 	in	clinical	trials	and	elevating 	the	role	 of	female	physicians 	in	health	care.The	Boston	Scientific 	caring	value	guides	how	we	engage	with	patients, 	  work	together 	as	colleagues 	and	invest	in	the	well-being 	of	our  communities.
Our 	 EDUCARE 	 program 	 offers 	 a 	 variety 	 of 	 training 	 programs 	  to	help	healthcare 	providers 	deliver	the	best	patient	care	possible.
We 	  also	support	future	diverse	talent	with	education 	and	STEM	programming 	  for	K-12	students 	around	the	world.
The 	 company 	 invests 	 in 	 training 	 and 	  continuing 	education 	for	our	employees 	and	ensures	a	positive	work	  environment 	through	global	environmental 	health	and	safety	policies.
Our	facilities	reflect	the	priority	we	place	on	agile	workspaces 	that	offer	 flexibility.
We	are	committed 	to	SDG	16	and	doing	business 	with	integrity	and	honesty.
Our	teams	responsibly 	research, 	 develop, 	 manufacture 	 and 	 deliver 	 our 	  products 	with	a	commitment 	to	strong	corporate 	governance, 	 impeccable 	 ethics	and	regulatory 	compliance.
The 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 Code 	 of 	 Conduct 	 is 	 the	foundation 	for	our	policies	and	must	be	read,	 understood 	 and 	 followed 	 by	every	employee.
Our 	 policies 	 and 	 practices 	 reflect 	 our 	 belief 	 in 	 and 	  support	for	all	fundamental 	human	rights.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Owning and Managing CSR Our	people	in	more	than	100	countries 	 work	with	an	awareness 	of	the	world’s	 most	pressing 	challenges, 	 including 	 inequality, 	 economic 	 disparity, 	 climate 	 change	and	environmental 	protection.
Their	efforts	to	help	address	these	issues	 are	supported 	by	our	cross-functional 	  CSR	Council,	 Environmental 	 Health 	 and 	 Safety	(EH&S)	policies	and	programs 	and	 a	Global	Council	for	Inclusion, 	 along 	 with 	 local,	regional 	 and 	 national 	 employee 	  and	community 	programs.
The	CSR	Council	includes	subject	matter	 experts	throughout 	the	company 	who	  help	define	CSR	strategy	and	ensure	  accountability.
An 	 executive 	 steering 	  committee 	oversees 	the	Council	and	  champions 	sustainable 	practices 	across	  the	business.
Within 	 this 	 framework, 	  everyone 	in	the	company 	contributes 	  to	our	social	responsibility.
Our CSR Performance We	hold	ourselves 	accountable 	for	  providing updates and data related to   our	CSR	performance, 	 and 	 we 	 share 	  this	information 	through	several	  communications 	channels, 	 including 	 this 	 report and www.bostonscientific.com.
Each	year,	 we 	 report 	 the 	 company’s 	  impact	on	the	environment 	as	defined	  by	the	Carbon	Disclosure 	Project,	 and 	  we	participate 	in	several	widely	  recognized 	environmental, 	 social 	  and	governance 	rating	surveys.
This	report	has	been	prepared 	in	  accordance 	with	the	GRI	guidelines.
Unless	otherwise 	indicated, 	 data 	 in 	  this	report	covers	the	period	between 	  January	1,	 2019,	 and 	 December 	 31,	 2019.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Guided by our core values, we are committed to shaping a  better future for patients, customers, employees as well as  the communities in which we live and work.
Our teams are dedicated to transforming lives through innovative medical  solutions that improve the health of patients around the globe — while also making measurable contributions to the world we all share.Mike Mahoney, Chairman and CEO, attending an event at the Berkshire Partners Blue Hill   Boys & Girls Club, where Boston Scientific teamed up with the Boston Celtics to renovate   a pre-teen room.
Company Leadership and Corporate Social Responsibility The JUST 100: Forbes	and	JUST	Capital	ranked	Boston	Scientific 	in	the	top	30	of	America's 	 Most	JUST	Companies.
America's Most Responsible Companies: Newsweek 	and	Statista	ranked	Boston	Scientific 	  #48	in	its	first	ranking	of	the	most	responsible 	companies 	in	America.
World's Most Admired Companies: Boston	Scientific 	was	again	named	a	FORTUNE 	  World's	Most	Admired 	company, 	 ranking 	 #2 	 in 	 the 	 Medical 	 Products 	 and 	 Equipment 	  industry	category.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Every day, Boston Scientific is.
transforming the lives of our patients.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Our Patients 17 Our P atients 21  Promoting 	Health	Equity	with	  Close	the	Gap The patient featured on the cover, German  pole vaulter Katharina Bauer, strikes a   yoga pose atop Lion's Head, a mountain   overlooking Cape Town, South Africa.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  We	are	proud	that	in	  2019	our	devices	and	 therapies 	helped	more	 than	30	million	patients	 live	longer	and	better	 lives.
Their stories inspire  us	to	do	more.
As 	 we 	  focus on solving the  healthcare challenges  that	matter	most,	 we 	  are also expanding   our	efforts	to	increase	 healthcare access and  help educate people   on disease prevention.
Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Allen Brady (Pensacola, Florida, U.S.) When	her	husband, 	 Allen,	 couldn’t 	 finish 	  a	round	of	golf	anymore, 	 Dianne 	 Brady 	 knew 	 that 	 something 	 was 	 wrong.
The	90-year-old 	decorated 	war	veteran	had	no	plans	to	slow	down	but	  was	regularly 	getting	out	of	breath.
Allen 	 later 	 learned 	 from 	 his 	  cardiologist 	that	he	was	experiencing 	aortic	stenosis	and	needed	a	  valve change.
He received the LOTUS	Edge™	Aortic	Valve	System  and   was	able	to	return	to	playing	golf	and	enjoying 	time	with	Dianne.
Valentina Arango (Bogota, Colombia) For	months,	 Valentina 	 was	feeling	ill	and	the	cause	could	not	be	determined.
Eventually, 	 doctors 	 discovered 	 that 	 she 	 potentially 	 had  cancerous 	liver	fibrosis	and	stones	in	her	intrahepatic 	  duct,	which 	 drains 	 bile 	 from 	 the 	 liver.
Her 	 doctors 	 used 	  SpyGlass™ 	DS	Direct   Visualization 	System  in   a	procedure 	to	destroy	the	  stones	and	collect	a	biopsy	  to	test	for	cancer	—	which	  was	negative.
Valentina 	  returned to her studies and   normal	life,	 feeling 	 healthy 	  and	free	of	worry.Our Patients  “ I haven’t f elt anything in my heart since that valve went   in there, other than my body works better.
It’s like getting  a new lease on life.”“ Living with f ear   is difficult…   Now I can live without fear  of not having a future thanks  to Boston  Scientific.” Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Gregory Gaddy (Memphis,  Tennessee, U.S.) After falling  from	a	ladder	while	working	in	 his	yard,	 Gregory 	 was 	 left 	 with 	 chronic	pain	from	his	injuries.
After	more	than	10	years	  of struggling 	with	pain	  management, 	 he 	 chose 	 to 	  have a	Boston	Scientific 	spinal cord device 	implanted.
The 	 SCS 	 greatly 	 reduced 	 Gregory's 	 pain 	 and	allowed	him	to	return	to	tending	his	garden	and	achieving 	 his	goal	of	winning	"Yard	of	the	Month"	in	his	community.
HeartLogic™ Heart  Failure Diagnostic  The HeartLogic™ Heart  Failure Diagnostic is  the first and only heart  failure diagnostic tool   proven to detect 70   percent of heart failure  events several weeks  in advance, potentially   reducing further   hospitalization for   patients with heart   failure.
This diagnostic  tool is featured in   the Boston Scientific  Resonate™ family of   cardiac resynchronization  therapy defibrillator   (CRT-D) and implantable   cardioverter defibrillator   (ICD) devices.
Symbols representing  sensors from the   Heartlogic heart failure  diagnostic tool.
Kathryn Grosshans (Yorktown, Virginia, U.S.) In	her	early	teenage	years,	 Kathryn’s 	  occasional leg	pain	was	attributed 	to	her	heavy	figure	skating	training	  schedule.
But 	 by 	 the 	 time 	 she 	 was 	 a 	 senior 	 in 	 high 	 school,	 Kathryn’s 	 pain 	  was	so	debilitating 	that	she	could	barely	walk.
A 	 vascular 	 specialist 	  diagnosed 	her	with	May-Thurner 	syndrome 	and	recommended 	that	  she	receive	a	stent	to	relieve	a	compressed 	vein.
Kathryn 	 was 	  implanted 	with	the VICI Venous Stent™ System 	in	a	same-day 	  outpatient 	p rocedure 	 and 	 immediately 	 experienced 	 a 	  difference.
A 	 year 	 later,	 she 	 decided 	 to 	 train 	 for 	 her 	  first	marathon, 	 which 	 she 	 completed 	 free 	 of 	 pain.
“ Be cause of the stent, I can continue to do all of the things  I want to do and accomplish dreams that I didn’t think I  would be able to before.”“ SCS has given   me my life back and I'm able  to do things  that I love.” Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Eluvia™ Drug-Eluting  Vascular Stent System The	Eluvia™	Drug-Eluting 	 Vascular 	Stent	System	  is a controlled drug   delivery system designed  and engineered to solve   the unique challenge   of restenosis in the   superficial femoral   artery (SFA), the main  artery leading to the   lower limbs.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations “ T om and I are both very excited to get our lives back.” Lisa Griener (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.) Meeting	her	husband, 	 Tom,   was	an	exciting	new	chapter	in	life	—	but	10	months	after	their	  wedding, 	 Lisa 	 was 	 diagnosed 	 with 	 Parkinson’s 	 disease.
To 	 manage 	  her	Parkinson’s, 	 Lisa 	 took 	 up 	 to 	 13 	 pills 	 a 	 day,	 but 	 her 	 movements 	  were	so	uncontrollable 	that	it	was	difficult	for	her	to	work	or	  socialize.
After 	 receiving 	 the 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	Vercise™ 	DBS	System,	  Lisa’s	tremors	have	minimized 	and	she	has	regained 	control	of  her	movements 	—	allowing 	her	to	reduce	her	medications.
Most 	  importantly, 	 Lisa 	 and 	 Tom 	 are 	 enjoying 	 their 	 life 	 together 	 again 	 and 	  focusing 	on	the	years	ahead.
Marjorie Giovannoni (Coupeville,   Washington, U.S.) After a   hemorrhagic 	stroke,	 Marjorie 	  was	paralyzed 	on	her	entire	  right	side.
As 	 time 	 went 	 on,	 she 	  faced	a	difficult	choice:	 go 	 back 	  on	blood	thinners	to	address	her	  high	risk	of	stroke	or	avoid	them,	  because 	her	condition 	made	falls	and	bleeding 	more	likely.
Marjorie	elected	to	be	implanted 	with	a	WATCHMAN™ 	Left	 Atrial	Appendage 	Closure	(LAAC)	Device	as	an	alternative, 	 which	has	given	her	peace	of	mind.
“ It is the best f eeling to know the  WATCHMAN is in there and going to  watch over me.” Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Nicole Leon (Chicago, Illinois, U.S.) At	32,	Nicole 	 was 	 diagnosed 	 with 	 a 	 hepatocellular 	 liver 	 tumor.
She 	 was 	 told 	 that 	 her 	 tumor 	 was 	 inoperable 	 and 	 that 	 she 	 had 	 six 	 months 	 to 	 live.
A	multi-disciplinary 	team	at	the	University 	of	Chicago	Medicine’s 	Liver	  Tumor	Program 	used	the	TheraSphere™ 	Y-90	Glass	Microspheres    to	deliver	a	treatment 	called	radiation 	embolization, 	 which 	 reduced 	  the	size	of	the	tumor	so	it	could	be	surgically 	removed.
Today,	  Nicole	has	nearly	100	percent	of	her	liver	volume	back	and	normal	  liver	function.
Nicole 	 is 	 now 	 three 	 years 	 cancer-free, 	 married 	 and 	 has 	  a	healthy	baby	boy	whom	she	named	after	one	of	the	doctors	who	  helped save her life.
Alex Lamb (Smalley, Derbyshire, England) Not	your	typical	 81-year-old, 	 Alex 	 has 	 a 	 regular 	 regimen 	 of 	 karate,	 yoga 	 and 	 5-kilometer 	daily	runs.
When 	 he 	 was 	 diagnosed 	 with 	 advanced 	 prostate	cancer,	 his 	 doctor 	 recommended 	 radiation 	 therapy,	 which	is	associated 	with	unpleasant 	side	effects	such	as	  rectal	pain	and	diarrhea.
Alex’s	d octors	u sed	o ur	SpaceOAR™   Hydrogel ,	w hich	p rotects 	or gans 	 such 	 as 	 the 	 rectum 	 from 	  radiation 	exposure 	during	treatment 	and	minimizes 	  side	effects.
The 	 treatment 	 was 	 successful, 	  and	his	Prostate-Specific 	Antigen	  (PSA)	levels	are	now	undetectable.
Alex	was	running	two	days	after	  his procedure and has   now	resumed 	his	full	  workout	routine.
EXALT™ Model D   Duodenoscope  In December 2019, the   EXALT™ Model D, the  world’s first and only  single-use duodenoscope,  was cleared by the U.S.  FDA, eliminating the   need for reprocessing  and repairs.
The EXALT  Model D supports   physicians in their mission  to deliver the highest  quality patient care   because they can now   use a new, sterile device  for every procedure.
“ I have a se cond chance at life — to get married and start a  family and move on.” “ It w as vitally  important   for me to  get running again because that really  is my whole life.” Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  21Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Massachusetts Conference for Women: Personal Brand, Heart Health and Exercise  For	the	fifth	consecutive 	year,	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 co-sponsored 	 the 	 annual 	 Massachusetts 	 Conference 	for	Women	in	Boston,	 a 	 program 	 drawing 	 more 	 than 	 13,000 	 attendees.
Approximately 	240	employees 	attended, 	 and 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 women 	 leaders 	 served 	  as	panelists 	as	well	as	guest	speakers.
The 	 Close 	 the 	 Gap 	 team 	 collaborated 	 with 	  WomenHeart, 	 a 	 patient 	 advocacy 	 group 	 focused 	 on 	 heart 	 disease 	 in 	 women,	 to 	 engage 	 conference 	participants 	in	a	dialogue 	about	heart	health	and	to	experience 	on-site	  wellness 	activities, 	 including 	 mini-strength 	 and 	 stretching 	 sessions.Promoting Health Equity with Close the Gap For	more	than	a	decade,	 the 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	Close	the	Gap	health	equity	program 	has	 focused	on	eliminating 	care	disparities 	and	improving 	access	to	health	services	for	under- served	patient	populations.
The 	 company 	 collaborates 	 with 	 healthcare 	 providers, 	 national 	 patient	advocacy 	groups	and	minority	associations 	to	advocate 	for	broader	representation 	 of	minorities 	in	clinical	trials	and	to	support	their	access	to	quality	care.
We 	 also 	 partner 	  with	like-minded 	organizations 	to	reach	underserved 	patient	populations 	with	culturally 	 relevant	education 	and	resources 	delivered 	through	events	and	community 	programs.
In	2019,	new	data	from	the	PLATINUM 	 Diversity 	trial,	one	of	the 	 first 	 clinical 	  studies	of	its	kind	to	identify	the	  disparities 	experienced 	by	women	  and	minorities 	undergoing 	coronary 	 stenting	procedures 	as	compared 	to	 white	males,	 demonstrated 	 that 	 minority 	 patients	are	more	likely	to	stop	their	  dual	anti-platelet 	therapy	after	a	  coronary 	stenting	procedure 	(when	  compared 	to	white	males),	 putting 	  them	at	higher	risk	for	potential 	adverse	 events.
These 	 findings 	 can 	 serve 	 as 	 a 	  basis	for	action	for	healthcare 	providers 	 and is leading investigators to look  further	into	why	this	is	happening.
57,000  people reached through   Close the Gap awareness events.57 events held by Close the Gap   in communities across the U.S.$750,000  grants awarded to   organizations working to increase   enrollment of underserved  populations in clinical trials.180  Congressional Black and   Hispanic Caucus members educated on inequities in health care and the impact of peripheral artery disease  on African American men.
Boston Scientific employees participating   in a Spirit of the Heart event in Georgia, U.S. Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Every day, Boston Scientific is.
achieving success through our people.
Our P eople 23	 The	People	of	Boston	Scientific 	 24	 Making 	Diversity 	and	Inclusion 	a	Priority 24	 Leadership 	Commitment 26		 	Diversity 	 and 	 Inclusion 	 Goals 29	 Employee 	Resource 	Groups 32  List ening to Our People 33   Se tting the Bar Higher 34		 	Employe e 	 Growth 	 and 	 Development 36		C ompensation 	 and 	 Benefits 40	 Caring 	for	Our	CommunitiesFeature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  23The	people	of	Boston	Scientific 	are	  defined	by:    Global impact: Our	employees 	make	a	 difference 	for	people	around	the	world	 and around the corner.
Diversity: We	are	proud	of	the	diversity	 of	thought, 	 background 	 and 	 perspective 	 that	leads	to	our	greatest	breakthroughs.
Winning spirit: Our people take on the  industry’s 	toughest 	challenges 	and	  never settle for the status quo.
Growth: We	make	learning, 	  development 	and	progression 	a	  priority.
Talented 	 and 	 dedicated 	  employees 	deserve	opportunities 	  to	grow.
Engagement: In	our	collaborative 	  work	environment, 	 people 	 build 	  lasting	relationships 	with	colleagues 	 worldwide 	and	advance 	our	thought	 leadership 	in	the	industry.
Opportunity: We	offer	diverse	and	  global	career	options,	 including   international 	assignments 	and	  programs.The People of Boston Scientific  In	the	last	three	years,	 we 	 have 	 made 	 steady	progress 	to	increase	the	overall	 representation 	of	women	and	multicultural1  talent,	with 	 an 	 emphasis 	 on 	 supervisor 	  and	manager 	roles.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations By	pushing	the	boundaries 	of	what	is	  possible, 	 our 	 approximately 	 36,000 	 employees 	across	the	globe	collaborate 	 every	day	to	change	and	save	lives.
As 	 we 	 develop innovative solutions to address  unmet	needs	of	patients, 	 physicians 	 and 	 healthcare 	systems, 	 their 	 collective 	 talent 	 and shared sense of purpose give us our  competitive 	edge.
Innovation thrives in a culture of engage- ment	and	inclusion.
People 	 deserve 	 to 	 work	in	an	environment 	where	they	can	 make	significant 	contributions 	to	the	  business 	while	also	pursuing 	their	  individual 	goals.
Our 	 talent 	 management 	 practices 	support	a	workplace 	where	  people	can	create,	 explore 	 and 	 problem 	 solve	—	and	trust	they	will	be	recognized 	  for	their	performance.Our People  1 In the United States and Puerto Rico, defined as African American/Black, Asian, Hispanic/Latino, American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races.
Excludes any U.S. Puerto Rico employees where the ethnicity is “Unallocated.”“ W e do our best work to   advance health care when  we have a richness of  perspectives and experience on our teams and when  we can bring our whole selves to work.”    — Wendy Carruthers, Senior Vice President,  Boston Scientific Human Resources 2019 2018 201747.0%46.5% 45.5%Representation at All Levels 2019 2018 201733.2% 31.7% 30.7%Women (Global) Multicultural (U.S./Puerto Rico) Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Making Diversity and Inclusion   (D&I) a Priority Our	diversity	value	stands	for	inclusion, 	 equity	and	opportunity 	for	all.
At 	 Boston 	  Scientific, 	 D&I 	 is 	 instrumental 	 to 	 our 	  thriving culture and our focus on   innovation.
We 	 consider 	 it 	 an 	 urgent 	  issue	and	business 	imperative.
The 	  society	we	live	in	and	the	customers 	  and	patients	we	serve	are	diverse	in	  culture,	gender 	 identity 	 and 	 ability.
To 	 remain	innovative 	and	competitive 	in	  the	marketplace, 	 we 	 must 	 reflect 	 this  truth	through	our	people.
We 	 recognize 	 change	is	gradual,	 and 	 we 	 are 	 committed 	 to	progress 	over	time,	 not 	 overnight.Leadership Commitment Our leading advocate for D&I is Boston   Scientific 	Chairman 	and	CEO	Mike	  Mahoney.
He 	 was 	 among 	 the 	 first 	 of 	  more	than	800	CEOs	of	leading	companies 	 to	become	a	signatory 	of	the	CEO Action  for	Diversity 	&	Inclusion 	Pledge,	the	largest 	 CEO-driven 	business 	campaign 	in	the	  United	States	to	advance 	diversity	and	 promote 	inclusive 	workplaces.
Consistent 	with	our	pledge	commitments, 	 we	held	a	second	annual	Day	of	Under- standing 	to	help	employees 	embrace 	 differences 	in	our	organizations 	and	build	a	 more	inclusive 	culture	inside	and	outside	of	 work.
We 	 welcomed 	 the 	”Check	Your	Blind	 Spots”	mobile 	 bus	tour	to	our	Marlborough,   Massachusetts 	campus, 	 where 	 hundreds 	 of 	 employees 	boarded 	the	bus	to	participate 	 in	virtual	reality	scenarios 	and	learn	new	 ways	to	understand 	and	avoid	unconscious 	 bias.
All	participants 	 signed 	 an 	“I 	 Act 	 On”	 pledge	affirming 	their	personal 	commit- ment	to	a	more	inclusive 	workplace 	and	 community.
We 	 also 	 collaborated 	 with 	 other	CEO	Action	companies 	to	share	best	 practices 	for	fostering 	a	work	environment 	 where	difficult	conversations 	about	diversity	 and inclusion can occur.
Boston Scientific employees welcomed   the Check Your Blind Spots mobile bus to  the Marlborough, Massachusetts campus.
They participated in a unique, technology-  enabled multimedia experience focused  on understanding and exploring ways to  mitigate unconscious bias.
D&I efforts throughout Boston Scientific align with four strategic pillars: CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Boston Scientific was among the   first signatories of the CEO Action  for Diversity & Inclusion Pledge when it launched in 2017.
The	coalition 	unites	business 	leaders	 around	four	key	commitments: 	 1.
W e	will 	 continue 	 to 	 make 	 our 	 workplaces 	trusting	places	to	have	 complex, 	 and 	 sometimes 	 difficult,	 conversations 	about	diversity	and	 inclusion.
2.
W e	will 	 implement 	 and 	 expand 	  unconscious 	bias	education.
3.
W e	will 	 share 	 best 	 — 	 and 	 unsuccessful 	 — practices.
4.
W e	will 	 create 	 and 	 share 	 strategic 	  inclusion 	and	diversity	plans	with	  our Board of Directors.CAREER Attract,	develop, 	  advance and retain   diverse	employees COMMUNITY Promote 	diversity	  and inclusion   awareness 	and	  encourage   engagement 	  company-wideCULTURE Build and sustain   an inclusive   environment 	that	  fosters innovation   and high   performanceDIVERSITY &   INCLUSION VISION A diverse and inclusive  culture	that	attracts,	 develops and retains  the	best	team	to	deliver	 innovative 	medical	 solutionsCOMMERCE Facilitate 	diversity	and	 inclusion 	outcomes 	  to	influence 	business 	 opportunities Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  25In	2019,	we 	 strengthened 	 company-wide 	 efforts	to	achieve	our	D&I	goals	for	  increasing 	representation 	of	women	  and	multicultural 	talent	on	regional	and	 functional 	leadership 	teams	across	the	 organization.
Attracting 	 diverse 	 talent 	 was 	 a	key	area	of	focus	and	we	continued 	our	 trend of hiring a greater percentage of  multicultural 	talent	and	women	than	our	 current representation of these groups.Collaborating for Change We	collaborate 	with	leading	organizations 	 dedicated 	to	promoting 	and	supporting 	 the	rights	and	development 	of	women,	 multicultural 	talent,	 people 	 with 	 disabilities 	 and	lesbian,	 gay,	 bisexual, 	 transgender 	  and	queer/questioning 	(LGBTQ+) 	talent.
In	the	United	States,	 our 	 partnerships 	 include	Advancing 	Minorities’ 	 Interest 	 in	Engineering 	(AMIE),	 American 	 Indian 	 Science	and	Engineering 	Society	(AISES),	 Disability:IN, 	 Hiring 	 Our 	 Heroes,	 the 	  Hispanic 	Promise, 	 the 	 Human 	 Rights 	  Campaign 	(HRC),	 the 	 National 	 Society 	 of 	 Black	Engineers 	(NSBE),	 National 	 Action 	 Council for Minorities in Engineering  (NACME), 	 reacHIRE, 	 the 	 Society 	 of 	 Hispanic 	 Professional 	Engineers 	(SHPE)	and	the	  Society	of	Women	Engineers 	(SWE).
Boston	Scientific 	is	a	founding 	member 	  of Disability:IN’s 	Inclusion 	Works	Program 	 (formerly 	Going	for	the	Gold),	 and 	 in 	 2019 	 we	were	premier	sponsors 	of	the	“IN 	 for 	 Inclusion” 	 annual 	 conference.
The 	 event 	 offered	a	forum	for	1,500	participants 	 from	more	than	10	countries, 	 including 	 200	NextGen 	Leaders	with	disabilities, 	 to 	 engage	with	industry	peers	about	disability 	 inclusion.
The conference featured sessions  on	topics	ranging	from	workplace 	and	  supply	chain	to	technology, 	 and 	 it 	  celebrated 	leaders	in	disability 	equality.Targeted Development & Retention Programs Over	the	last	two	years,	 we 	 broadened 	 the 	 scope	of	EXCELerate, 	 a 	 multi-year 	 program 	 first	designed 	to	foster	female	talent	from	 manufacturing, 	 supply 	 chain,	 quality 	 and 	 new	product	development 	teams	to	now	 include	participants 	from	information 	  technology, 	 global 	 business 	 systems 	  and	security.
We 	 also 	 launched 	 an 	 effort 	  to	begin	offering	the	program 	to	all	  multicultural 	talent.
In 	 2019,	 employees 	 from	four	countries 	were	matched 	with	 Boston	Scientific 	executives 	who	serve	as	 advisors, 	 mentors 	 and 	 career 	 advocates.
Our	MARC	(Men	Activating 	Real	Change) 	 Leaders	Program 	supports 	men	as	allies	 and	promotes 	a	more	level	playing	field	  for	all.
Its 	 curriculum 	 examines 	 assump- tions	and	mindsets 	to	help	leaders	better	  understand 	how 	dominant 	busines s 	cultur e 	 and	unconscious 	bias	affect	partnerships 	 between 	men	and	women.
The 	 program 	 features	an	immersive 	day-and-a-half 	 workshop 	and	facilitated 	dialogue, 	  including 	ongoing 	engagement 	through	 MARC	alumni	networks.
Following 	 a 	 successful 	pilot	in	2018,	 we 	 offered 	 the 	 program 	to	executive 	teams	in	2019	and	 will	offer	new	MARC	opportunities 	to	all	 employees 	going	forward.Our	Women’s 	Network 	(WN)	Employee 	  Resource 	Group	chapters 	continued 	to	 expand	in	2019	with	four	new	chapters, 	 resulting in representation in each of   the	company’s 	four	global	regions.
The 	 WN	chapters 	hold	programs 	that	help	 participants 	develop	their	leader	ship 	 skills,	 set and pursue career goals and expand  their	networks.
Examples 	 of 	 these 	 offerings 	 include	the	WN	Twin	Cities,	 Minnesota 	 Professional 	Development 	Series,	 the 	 WN 	 “Lessons 	from	LeadHers” 	 in 	 our 	 Europe,	 Middle	East	and	Africa	region,	 and 	 various 	 chapter	mentoring 	initiatives 	such	as	  Mentoring 	Circles	and	Male	Ally	Network 	 (MAN)	mentor	matching 	program.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations 2019 2018 201750.2%51.2% 50.5%New Hires 2019 2018 201743.5% 42.6% 40.7%Women (Global) Multicultural (U.S./Puerto Rico) Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Diversity and Inclusion Goals We	transparently 	measure 	and	report	  our	progress 	in	building	a	diverse	  workforce 	that	fully	reflects	our	core	  values	and	the	customers 	and	patients	  we	serve.
While 	 traditional 	 diversity 	  recruiting 	efforts	have	targeted 	entry-   level	positions 	or	relied	on	top-down 	 change,	 our 	“10/20/ 40”	 by 	 2020 	 initiative 	 shifted our focus to reshaping the   company’s 	core	mid-level 	employee 	base.
Our	recent	D&I	progress 	was	driven	by	 these	10/20/40 	by	2020	goals:    10: Be	recognized 	as	a	top	10	leader	  for	workplace 	inclusion; 	    20: Increase representation of   multicultural 	talent	to	20	percent	at	  the	supervisor 	and	manager 	levels	in	  the	United	States,	 including 	 Puerto 	  Rico;	and 	    40: Increase	representation 	of	women	 globally	to	40	percent	at	the	supervisor 	 and	manager 	levels.We	gained	D&I	momentum 	in	2019,	  achieving 	our	"10"	objective 	with	numerous 	 Top	10	recognitions, 	 as 	 a 	 Diversity 	 Best 	 Practices 	Top	10	Percent	Inclusion 	Index	 Company, 	 among 	 them.
We 	 also 	 exceeded 	 our	"20"	goal	with	20.8	percent	multicultural 	 representation at the supervisor and   manager 	levels.
We 	 made 	 significant 	  progress 	toward	our	"40"	goal	with	38.1	 percent	representation 	of	women	in	  supervisor 	and	manager 	roles.
At 	 all 	 levels 	 of	the	organization, 	 representation 	 of 	 women	increased.
The 	 results 	 reinforce 	 the 	 importance 	of	making	progress 	over	time,	 not	overnight.
To 	 that 	 end,	 we 	 have 	 set 	 new	ambitious 	D&I	goals	to	reach	by	2023.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations We	were	proud	to	be	  recognized 	as	a	Top 10%   Inclusion Index Company   by	Diversity	Best	Practices.
See	more	awards .We	reported 	20.8%   representation of multi-  cultural talent at the   supervisor 	and	manager 	 levels,	meeting 	 our 	 goal.*We	reported 	38.1%   representation of  women at supervisor   and	manager 	levels.*D&I 10/20/40 by 2020 Results *Results include 2019 acquisitions.10TOP 20%40% Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  27Continue 	to	be	a	top	10%	 globally	recognized 	leader	  for workplace inclusion ,	  because 	we	know	that  diversity	and	inclusion 	  benefits	us	allIncrease our goal for   representation of multi-  cultural talent at the   supervisor 	and	manager 	  levels	by	3	percentage 	points	  or	more,	 to 	 at 	 least 	 23%Setting New Goals Our	“3Up 	 by 	 2023”	 goals 	 are 	 growth 	  focused	and	ensure	we	continue 	to	  build	on	our	measurable 	goals	while	  also challenging ourselves to achieve   them	in	shorter	time	frames.
By	December 	31,	 2022,	 we 	 aim 	 to 	 achieve 	 a	3	percentage 	point	increase	from	our	 10/20/40 	by	2020	representation 	goals:    Increase our goal for representation of  women	at	the	supervisor 	and	manager 	 level	by	3	percentage 	points	or	more,	  for a total of at least 43 percent.
Increase our goal for representation of  multicultural 	talent	at	the	supervisor 	  and	manager 	level	by	3	percentage 	 points	or	more,	 for 	 a 	 total 	 of 	 at 	 least 	  23	percent.
Continue 	to	be	a	Top	10	percent	  globally	recognized 	leader	for	  workplace 	inclusion, 	 because 	 we 	  know	that	diversity	benefits	us	all.Achieving 	these	goals	will	require	  continued 	change	in	three	key	areas	  of	the	management-level 	employee 	  experience:    Attraction: Hiring	diverse	managerial 	 talent	allows	us	to	cultivate 	a	rich	pool	  of	perspectives 	and	backgrounds 	  that	will	help	us	innovate 	beyond	  our	current	capabilities.
Development: Recognizing 	and	  providing opportunities to diverse   talent	already	within	our	workforce 	  helps	to	ensure	employees 	at	all	levels	 experience 	meaningful 	career	journeys.
Retention: Paying	attention 	to	who	 leaves	our	team	matters	just	as	much	 as	who	joins	it.
By 	 supporting, 	 engaging 	 and	retaining 	diverse	talent,	 we 	 can 	 stem 	 attrition	to	maintain 	our	diverse	and	 innovative culture.We	believe	sharing	our	workforce 	  demographic 	data	is	an	important 	  step	in	holding	ourselves 	accountable 	  to	measurable 	progress.
To 	 learn 	 more 	 about	our	progress, 	 visit 	 our 	D&I	website .
Increase our goal for   representation of women at  the	supervisor 	and	manager 	 levels	by	3	percentage 	points	  or	more,	 to 	 at 	 least 	 43% 	Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations ” D&I is a busines s imperative  and success requires the  engagement of our entire company.”   — Camille Chang Gilmore, Vice President,  Boston Scientific Human Resources and  Global Chief Diversity Officer   3Up by 2023 Goals Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  28D&I Initiatives Boston	Scientific 	is	committed 	to	creating	 equal	opportunities 	for	growth	across	the	 company.
We 	 believe 	 that 	 meeting 	 this 	 objective 	requires:   Communicating 	with	transparency 	  about	our	strategy, 	 actions 	 and 	 results    Promoting 	diversity	awareness 	and	  inclusion 	competency 	skills	for	  employees 	worldwide    Driving	accountability 	to	promote 	  measurable 	D&I	progress With	a	heightened 	focus	on	attraction, 	 development 	and	retention, 	 we 	  accelerated 	our	D&I	efforts	with	new	  resources 	and	programs 	in	2019.
Diverse Leaders of Tomorrow: We	 launched 	Diverse	Leaders	of	Tomorrow, 	 a	program 	to	help	diverse	talent	manage 	 their personal and professional develop- ment	and	career	progression.
The 	 two-day 	 experience 	for	high-potential 	leaders	and	 their	managers 	focuses	on	equipping 	  participants for future leadership oppor - tunities	through	skill	building, 	 strategic 	 planning 	and	network	expansion.Recruiting Diverse Talent: Boston	Scientific 	 stepped	up	efforts	to	recruit	emerging 	  talent	by	deepening 	our	relationships 	 with	institutions 	such	as	Historically 	Black	 Colleges 	and	Universities 	(HBCUs).
In 	 the 	 summer 	of	2019,	 we 	 hired 	 more 	 than 	  170	diverse	interns	from	colleges	and	 universities 	across	the	United	States	after	 making	105	on-the-spot 	offers	to	students 	 at	campus	diversity	recruiting 	conferences.
Talent Management Bias Audit: 	We	  conducted 	a	third-party 	review	of	our	  global	talent	management 	processes 	to	 identify	potential 	unconscious 	bias.
Using 	 four	key	checkpoints 	—	clear	structures 	  and	standards, 	 difference 	 awareness, 	 skill 	 building	and	data	accountability 	—	the	  evaluation 	offered	insights	for	how	we	  can	further	refine	management 	practices 	  to achieve greater inclusion.
Inclusion Toolkit: We	launched 	a	new	  online	Inclusion 	Toolkit	that	offers	all	 employees 	on-demand 	D&I	tools	and	 information.
The 	 content 	 was 	 developed 	 in	response 	to	feedback 	from	2018	focus	 groups	with	350	employees.
The 	 toolkit’s 	 resources include an Inclusive Behaviors  self-assessment 	that	encourages 	people	  to	know	and	increase	their	Inclusion 	  Intelligence 	Quotient 	(IIQ).Unconscious Bias Training: We	expanded 	  our	Unconscious 	Bias	training	to	all	  employees, 	 making 	 it 	 available 	 in 	 18 	  languages.
The 	 15-minute 	 online 	 course 	 walks	employees 	through	questions 	  and	scenarios 	that	help	them	recognize 	 blind	spots	or	unconscious 	biases	that	  can	negatively 	influence 	their	work	  relationships 	and	decision	making.D&I Dashboard: This	new	internal	  analytics 	tool	provides 	leaders	a	dashboard 	 to	review	and	analyze	their	organization’s 	 representation 	and	trends,	 as 	 well 	 as 	  metrics	for	hiring,	 promotion 	 and 	 attrition.
A	summary 	is	regularly 	provided 	to	the	  Executive 	Committee.
Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  More than 4,500 Boston Scientific employees are active across nine   ERGs with 96 chapters globally, including 10 virtual chapters and  30 chapters outside the United States.
BRIDGE: Developing 	a	Community 	  of Black Leaders    HOLA: Hispanic 	Organization 	for	  Leadership 	and	Achievement    LEAD: Leadership, 	 Education 	 and 	  Allies	for	Disabilities    PEARL: Pacific	East	Asian	Resources 	  in Leadership   PRIDE: Promoting 	Respect, 	 Inclusion, 	 Diversity 	and	Equality   SAIL: South Asians in Leadership    VETS: Veterans 	&	Employees 	Together 	  in Service    WN: Women’s 	Network   YPN: Young	Professionals 	NetworkEmployee Resource Groups Employee 	Resource 	Groups	(ERGs)	are	  at	the	foundation 	of	our	D&I	strategy.
ERGs	are	voluntary, 	 company-sponsored 	 employee 	groups	that	foster	and	celebrate 	 our	diverse	work	environment.
While 	 ERGs 	 are	typically	formed	around	a	specific   diversity	dimension 	such	as	gender,	 race,	 veteran	status,	 sexual 	 orientation 	 or 	 life 	 stage,	all 	 employees 	 are 	 welcome 	 and 	 encouraged 	to	join	any	ERG.
Our 	 ERG 	  chapters 	around	the	world	collaborate 	 across	the	business 	at	all	levels	and	are	 considered 	powerful 	voices	for	change	  in	the	company.Boston	Scientific 	supports 	each	ERG	with	 resources, 	 global 	 and 	 local 	 executive 	  sponsors 	and	step-by-step 	information 	  on	how	to	structure 	and	lead	these	  organizations.
Our 	 Employee 	 Resource 	 Group	Handbook 	addresses 	all	aspects	 of	launching 	and	operating 	an	ERG,	 from 	 mentorship 	and	sponsorship 	to	expense 	 policies	and	communications 	guidelines.
In	2019,	we 	 piloted 	 ERG 	 Insights,	 a 	 new 	 software 	management 	platform 	that	 connects 	employee 	groups	in	all	regions	 of	the	world.
It 	 offers 	 online 	 tools 	 for 	 sharing	information 	and	managing 	group	 responsibilities, 	 including 	 event 	 planning, 	 budgeting 	and	member 	communications.
Following 	a	successful 	soft	launch	with	  ERG	leads,	 we 	 will 	 soon 	 offer 	 all 	 employees 	 access	to	ERG	Insights	in	2020.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations The number of   ERGs at Boston  Scientific has more than doubled over the past five years.
In 2019 alone, 11  new ERG chapters were launched.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Serving the Underserved with Health Camps Boston	Scientific 	employees 	in	our	SAIL	ERG	collaborate 	 across	our	Marlborough, 	 Massachusetts 	 and 	 Gurgaon, 	  India	offices	to	offer	health	camps	for	children.
In 	 2019,	  SAIL	teamed	up	with	the	Health	Care	Services	organization 	 in	India	to	organize 	local	school	visits	by	medical	  professionals.
Approximately 	 800 	 students 	 in 	 three 	 locations 	 had	the	opportunity 	to	receive	healthcare 	screenings 	and	 follow-up 	vaccines 	as	well	as	dental	and	eye	care.
Students 	 also	received 	backpacks 	with	dental	kits	and	other	supplies, 	 and	participated 	in	STEM	activities 	led	by	our	volunteers.
Workplace Accessibility In	September, 	 our 	 LEAD 	 ERG 	 chapters 	 in 	 10 	 locations 	  participated 	in	Make	Way	Day,	 a 	 global 	 event 	 dedicated 	  to	identifying 	ways	to	improve	accessibility 	at	Boston	 Scientific 	sites.
From 	 furniture 	 and 	 equipment 	 to 	  collaboration 	areas	and	digital	accessibility, 	 employees 	 in	the	United	States,	 Ireland,	 Puerto 	 Rico 	 and 	 Costa 	 Rica 	 worked	together 	to	generate 	new	ideas	for	improving 	 facilities.
Their 	 work 	 continues 	 in 	 2020 	 with 	 the 	 objective 	 of	developing 	a	company-wide 	accessibility 	strategy.Inclusive Restroom Signage Our	PRIDE	ERG	played	a	lead	role	in	a	2019	effort	to	create	 more	inclusive 	restroom 	signage	at	Boston	Scientific 	office	 locations.
PRIDE 	 representatives 	 collaborated 	 with 	 Human 	 Resources 	and	Global	Facilities 	team	members 	to	review	 and	consider 	proposals 	for	signage	and	restroom 	design	 updates.
As 	 a 	 result,	 two 	 updates 	 to 	 our 	 Global 	 Design 	 Guidelines 	were	approved 	and	are	now	being	implemented.
ERG HighlightsFeature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Global Council for Inclusion The	Boston	Scientific 	Global	Council	for	  Inclusion 	oversees 	the	implementation 	  of	the	company’s 	D&I	strategies.
Chief 	 Financial 	Officer	Daniel	Brennan 	chairs	the	 council	and	its	members 	include	Chairman 	 and	CEO	Mike	Mahoney, 	 the 	 Executive 	 Committee, 	 our 	 global 	 D&I 	 team 	 and 	 all 	 global	ERG	leaders.
The 	 council 	 meets 	 quarterly 	to	evaluate 	D&I	progress 	and	 consider 	challenges 	that	may	arise	for	our	 employee 	groups	in	all	locations.
In 	 2019,	 this	work	included 	the	development 	of	  action	items	to	ensure	that	ERGs	and	all	 leaders	have	the	support	they	need	to	  foster	an	inclusive 	environment.
The 	  council	also	welcomed 	nominations 	for	  our	first-ever 	D&I	Impact	Awards	and  selected 	winners	in	four	categories.
Inaugural D&I Impact Awards The Diversity and Inclusion Impact  Awards	were	established 	to	recognize 	 employees 	whose	efforts	help	create	 a	workplace 	where	people	can	bring	 their	authentic 	selves	to	work	every	day.
The	company 	honored 	winners	in	the	 categories 	of	Business 	Impact,	 Valued 	 Ally,	Workplace 	 Culture 	 and 	 ERG 	 Leader 	 of	the	Year.Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Boston	Scientific 	has	been,	 and 	 will 	  continue 	to	be,	 an 	 equal 	 opportunity 	  employer.
To 	 ensure 	 full 	 implementation 	  of	the	company’s 	equal	employment 	  policy,	we 	 continue 	 to 	 ensure 	 that 	  recruitment, 	 hiring,	 assignment, 	 promotion, 	 compensation 	and	all	other	personnel 	  decisions 	are	made	and	administered 	 without	regard	to	race,	 religion,	 ethnicity, 	 national	origin,	 citizenship, 	 sex,	 sexual 	  orientation, 	 gender 	 identity,	 gender 	 expression, 	 veteran’s 	 status,	 age,	 mental 	 or	physical	disability, 	 genetic 	 information 	 or	any	other	protected 	class.
We 	 draw 	 strength 	from	the	unique	talents	inherent 	 in	a	diverse	workforce 	and	we	believe	  the	best	and	most	innovative 	products 	 come	from	an	inclusive 	workplace 	where	 varied	viewpoints 	are	welcomed 	and	  encouraged.
We 	 also 	 have 	 a 	 strict 	  policy	against	harassment 	that	is	  reinforced through training and   multiple	communications 	channels.LGBTQ+ Equality In	2019,	we:    Sponsored the Equality Act legislation 	to	establish 	protections 	against	discrimination 	 based	on	sexual	orientation 	or	gender	identity,	 and 	 we 	 signed 	 onto 	 an 	 Amicus 	  Brief	filed	with	the	U.S.	 Supreme 	 Court 	 to 	 support 	 upholding 	 inclusive 	 federal 	  non-discrimination 	policies.
Equalized paid benefits for bonding leave in	the	United	States	for	the	birth	parent,	 non-birth 	parent,	 adoptive 	 parent 	 or 	 parent 	 who 	 has 	 a 	 child 	 through 	 a 	 surrogate, 	  and	expanded 	transgender 	coverage 	for	both	voice	and	communication 	therapy	  and	gender	reassignment 	surgery.
Created more inclusive restroom signage 	at	Boston	Scientific 	office	locations,   including 	a	n ew	“ All	G ender”	r estroom 	 sign 	 design 	 (formally 	“Gender 	 Neutral”) 	 as 	 well 	 as	single-occupancy 	restroom 	locator	signs	outside	of	gender-specific 	restrooms.
Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  32Listening to Our People Our	best	ideas	come	from	our	people.
We	listen	to	them	as	we	continuously 	  improve	our	work	environments 	and	  strive to attract and retain top talent.
In addition to encouraging ongoing  communication 	and	feedback 	between 	 employees 	and	their	managers, 	 we 	 devote 	 resources 	to	ensuring 	that	all	employees 	 have	the	opportunity 	to	share	their	ideas	 and insights.
Expanding Engagement We	revamped 	our	Employee 	Engagement 	 Survey	in	2019	to	make	it	a	more	dynamic, 	  real-time 	assessment 	tool.
The 	 new 	  format	will	launch	in	2020	with	employee 	  pulse	surveys	to	facilitate 	continuous 	 engagement, 	 which 	 will 	 be 	 followed 	 by 	 a	Global	Census	Survey.
The 	 surveys 	 and 	 results	dashboards 	will	be	available 	on	 mobile	devic es 	 to 	 offer 	 easy 	 access 	 for	 participation 	 and 	 review.
This 	 all-electronic 	 approach 	now	enables	us	to	evaluate 	and	 share	employee 	feedback 	with	reduced	  turnaround 	time.
Assessing People Leadership Skills Our outreach to provide people leaders  with	feedback 	includes	employee 	input	  on	annual	performance 	reviews	and	 360-degree 	surveys.
We 	 also 	 offer 	 the  SPARK	survey	that	lets	employees 	rate	  their	manager’s 	performance 	against	a	 defined	set	of	leadership 	behaviors.
More 	 than	23,000	employees 	were	invited	to	 offer	feedback 	on	3,380	people	leaders	  in	2019,	with 	 a 	 response 	 rate 	 of 	 77 	 percent.
Of	the	participating 	managers, 	 87 	 percent 	  (those	with	three	or	more	direct	reports	 responding) 	received 	a	personalized 	  feedback 	report.
Evaluating our Communications Boston	Scientific 	conducts 	a	bi-annual 	 all-employee 	survey	about	our	  communications 	content	and	channels.
The	2019	survey	generated 	responses 	  from	nearly	10,000	employees 	in	all	  regions,	 an 	 increase 	 from 	 8,200 	 in 	 2017.
Of	those	respondents, 	 77 	 percent 	 were 	 non-management 	employees, 	 20 	 percent 	 were	supervisors 	and	managers 	and	3	  percent	were	leaders	at	the	director	  level	and	above.
The 	 results 	 showed 	 an 	 increase of 7 percent in overall satisfaction  with	company 	communications 	and	  provided 	insights	that	are	informing 	  ongoing 	efforts	to	engage	our	workforce.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  D&I Awards    Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index:  Boston	Scientific 	was	one	of	230	  companies 	globally	to	be	included 	in  the	Index,	 which 	 tracks 	 the 	 performance 	 of	public	companies 	most	committed 	  to	supporting 	gender	equality.
Best Place to Work for Disability   Inclusion: For the fourth consecutive  year, we	have been 	recognized 	as	a	  Best	Place	to	Work	for	Disability 	Inclusion, 	 receiving 	a	100%	on	the	Disability 	  Equality	Index	in	2019.
Forbes Best Employers for Diversity:  Forbes	recognized 	Boston	Scientific 	on	  its	America's 	Best	Employers 	for	Diversity 	 list	for	the	second	year	in	a	row.
Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality:  For	the	fifth	consecutive 	year,	 we 	 earned 	 a	100%	score	on	the	Human	Rights	  Campaign's 	Corporate 	Equality	Index,	 earning the designation as a Best Place  to	Work	for	LGBTQ	Equality.
Hispanic Association on Corporate  Responsibility (HACR) Corporate   Inclusion Index (CII):  In	our	first	year	 participating, 	 we 	 were 	 named 	 a 	 5-Star 	 Company 	for	Employment 	based	on	 HACR’s	ac countability 	 survey 	 that	  assesses inclusion of Hispanics in   Corporate 	America.
Diversity Best Practices: Boston   Scientific 	was	one	of	only	14	companies 	 to	be	named	a	Top	10%	Inclusion 	Index	  Company 	in	2019.
Beyond the Yellow Ribbon Company:  We	were	honored 	as	a	Yellow	Ribbon	 company 	for	supporting 	service	members, 	  military	families	and	veterans 	as	they	 transition 	to	employment.
Best Companies for Multicultural   Women: Working Mother 	Magazine 	  recognized 	Boston	Scientific 	for	its	 policies,	 programs 	 and 	 practices 	 that 	 support career 	advancement for 	  multicultural 	women.
Best Companies for Moms & Dads: Working Mother 	Magazine 	selected 	 Boston	Scientific 	for	its	annual	100	Best	 Companies 	and	Best	Company 	for	Dads	 lists,	based 	 on 	 maternal 	 and 	 paternal 	 leave	policies,	 flexible 	 work 	 schedules 	 and	inclusive 	benefits.
Workplace Awards    America’s Best Large Employers:   Forbes	ranked	Boston	Scientific 	#1	in	  the	Health	Care	Equipment 	and	Services	 industry.
Family Friendly Certified Company,  Korea:  Boston	Scientific 	Korea	was	  certified	as	a	Family	Friendly	Organization 	 by	the	Korean	Government 	Ministry	of	Gender	Equality	and	Family,	 a 	  designation 	acknowledging 	our	  inclusive 	and	family-friendly 	culture.
Best Companies to Work for in Asia:  Our	Taiwan	and	Hong	Kong	sites	were	 both	recognized 	as	top	places	to	work,	 based	on	our	workplace 	culture	and	  high	levels	of	employee 	engagement.
Great Place to Work Certified, India: The  Great	Place	to	Work	Institute	honored 	 Boston	Scientific 	with	this	award	for	our	 high-trust, 	 high-performance 	 culture 	  in India.
Top 50 Workplaces of the Fortune 500:  We	were	recognized 	as	a	top-rated 		 workplace 	by	Indeed,	 which 	 includes 	 companies 	on	the	Fortune	500	Index	 with	at	least	100	employee 	reviews.
2019 Glassdoor Best Places to Work:  Our	employees 	contributed 	valuable, 	 candid	feedback 	about	working	at  Boston	Scientific, 	 earning 	 us 	 this 	 honor 	 based	entirely	on	their	reviews.
Top 50 STEM Workplaces: We	were	 honored 	for	the	third	consecutive 	year	  by	AISES	(American 	Indian	Science	and	 Engineer 	Society),	 a 	 U.S.	 non-profit 	  focused	on	substantially 	increasing 	  representation 	of	Native	peoples	in	  STEM studies and careers.Setting the Bar Higher Boston	Scientific 	is	fully	committed 	to	  promoting 	an	inclusive 	culture	and	being	 an	employer 	of	choice	for	globally	diverse	 talent.
In 	 the 	 spirit 	 of 	 transparency, 	 we 	 participate 	in	external	benchmark 	index	 surveys	that	candidly 	assess	our	progress 	 and	ensure	we	are	doing	all	we	can	to	 achieve our D&I goals.
We	are	proud	to	have	been	recognized 	  by	the	following 	organizations 	in	2019.
Please	visit	our	website	for	a	complete 	 listing of Boston	Scientific 	awards	and	 recognitions.
2019 People AwardsFeature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Employee Growth and Development Developing 	our	people	professionally 	is	 one	of	the	most	important 	things	we	do.
At	every	level	of	the	company, 	 employees 	 have	access	to	programs, 	 training 	 and 	 tools 	 they	can	use	to	advance 	their	skills	and	 expertise 	and 	cr eate 	gr eater 	pos sibilities 	f or 	 their careers.
Developing Talent We	invest	in	building	and	sustaining 	an	 environment 	where	coaching 	and	develop- ment	are	a	priority.
To 	 ensure 	 the 	 success 	 and	growth	of	our	leaders,	 we 	 offer 	 tools 	 and training to support their continuous  development 	as	well	as	their	accountability.
With	the	pace	of	business 	moving	faster	 than	ever,	 we 	 are 	 becoming 	 more 	 agile 	 in	the	ways	we	meet	the	needs	of	our	 multigenerational 	workforce.
The 	 company 	 introduced 	and	expanded 	development 	 programs 	for	all	levels	with	easy-access 	 tools	tha t 	allow 	employe es 	t o 	manage 	their 	 own	growth	and	careers.
Boston 	 Scientific 	  offers	more	than	150	professional 	and	  technical 	courses	each	year,	 including 	  on-the-job 	training,	 skills-based 	 learning 	 and	programs 	for	talent	who	have	the  potential to hold future leadership positions.Accelerated Leadership Development  Program (ALDP) expedites the readiness of  high	potential 	leaders	and	key	successors 	t o	 take	on	more	complex 	roles.
Senior 	 leaders	 act	as	facilitators 	for	a	series	of	one-week 	   Team Acceleration is	a	customized, 	  interactive 	workshop 	that	helps	  employees 	build	and	sustain	high-   performing 	teams.
The 	 two-day 	  curriculum 	offers	tools	that	use	  customer 	insights	to	help	teams	  gain	clarity	about	their	goals,	 roles,	 processes and strategies in order   to	accelerate 	and	succeed.
In 	 2019,	  more	than	60	participants 	in	the	  U.S.	completed 	 this 	 pilot 	 program.
Insights Discovery is	a	methodology 	 that	uses	a	four-color 	model	and	  evaluator 	to	help	people	become   more	self-aware 	about	their	style	  and	strengths, 	 guiding 	 them 	 to 	  better	understand 	how	they	interact	 and	perform	as	team	members.
In 	 2019,	more 	 than 	 1,800 	 employees 	  participated in this training.
Mastering Emotional Intelligence   is	a	training	module	that	helps	  employees 	increase	their	emotional 	 quotient 	(EQ)	skills,	 including 	 how 	 they	communicate, 	 make 	 decisions, 	 respond to change and handle stress  or	conflict.
More 	 than 	 300 	 people 	  at	Boston	Scientific 	completed 	the	  on-demand, 	 voluntary 	 training 	 in 	 2019.2019 Highlightsclassroom 	sessions	featuring 	business 	  simulations, 	 coaching, 	 case 	 studies 	 and	  networking 	with	peers	and	Executive 	 Committee 	members.
In 	 2019,	 the 	 ALDP	 graduated 	27	leaders	from	11	countries.
Leadership Development Program (LDP)  is	designed 	for	director-level 	and	above	 employees 	who	are	nominated 	to	prepare	 for	their	next	level	of	growth.
The 	 curriculum 	 enhances their personal and leadership  skills through interactive sessions and gives  them	opportunities 	to	network	with	global	 peers	and	senior	leaders.
In 	 2019,	 39 	 par- ticipants 	from	10	countries 	completed 	the	 program.
More 	 than 	 500 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 leaders	have	graduated 	from	the	LDP.
In	2020,	 the 	 curriculum 	 and 	 participants 	 will	shift	to	focus	on	preparing 	senior	  managers 	for	director-level 	roles.
Management Development Program (MDP) features resources and coaching  tools	for	new	leaders.
The 	 mandatory 	 18-month 	program 	covers	hiring	practices, 	 talent	and	performance 	management, 	  unconscious 	bias,	 situational 	 leadership 	 and	coaching 	skills.
More 	 than 	 2,200 	 managers 	worldwide 	completed 	over	 5,000	MDP	sessions 	in	2019.
Based 	 on 	 the	success	of	the	MDP,	 we 	 are 	 launching 	 the	People	Leader	Experience 	in	2020,	 a 	 12-month 	program 	for	new	leaders	that	  includes	onboarding 	activities, 	 development 	 experiences and guidance for enhancing  partnerships 	with	supervisors.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations 568,000    hours spent by non-  manufacturing employees in virtual and classroom training in 2019 Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  35Leadership Development Across Cultures Boston	Scientific 	offers	targeted 	leadership 	 development 	programs 	to	complement 	 corporate 	programs 	and	support	talent	 throughout 	the	organization.
Some 	  examples 	of	our	regional	development 	 programs 	include	the	following:    Our Key Talent Program 	in	the	Europe,	 Middle	East	and	Africa	(EMEA)	region	 provides 	high-potential 	senior	managers 	 and	directors 	the	opportunity 	to	advance 	 their	development.
The 	 initiative 	 aims 	 to	deepen	the	region’s	leadership 	talent	 through	a	combination 	of	growth	  experiences, 	 coaching 	 and 	 interactions 	 with	senior	leadership.
The Asia Pacific Leadership   Development Program is an   accelerated 	development 	program 	  for talented and diverse leaders to build	our	talent	pipeline	for	future	  commercial 	leaders	in	the	Asia	Pacific	 region.
The 	 curriculum 	 includes 	  business 	projects	and	career-building 	 international 	work	experiences, 	 and 	 it  is	customized 	to	meet	each	talent’s	 unique	developmental 	needs.
Senior leaders and program alumni  facilitate 	our	leadership 	development 	 program 	in 	La tin 	Americ a,	which 	suppor ts 	  building	capabilities 	to	address	the	  region’s	emerging 	market	challenges 	 and	unique	health	ecosystem.
In 	 2019,	  60	participants 	from	five	countries 	  completed 	the	10-session 	curriculum.
In	addition, 	 nearly 	 200 	 emerging 	  leaders	participated 	in	country-level 	  development 	programs 	in	Colombia 	 (above	left),	 Brazil,	 Argentina, 	 Puerto 	  Rico	and	Mexico	(above	right).
The bi-annual Asia Pacific Women's Leadership Summit ,	held	in	 Bangkok, 	 Thailand, 	 included 	 female 	 leaders,	 male 	 advocates 	and	senior	executives 	from	10	 countries 	(left).
With 	 the 	 theme 	“Behind 	 every	strong	woman	leader	is	a	network	 supporting 	her,”	 the 	 summit 	 provided 	  a	platform 	for	leaders	to	sharpen	their	 skills	and	build	a	network	for	sharing	  best	practices 	and	promoting 	women’s 	 career	advancement.
Cross-Cultural Learning As	a	global	company, 	 we 	 offer 	 employees 	 the	opportunity 	to	routinely 	interact	with	 peers,	customers 	 and 	 patients 	 from 	 a 	 variety	of	cultures	and	countries.
We 	 have 	 developed 	a	comprehensive 	portfolio 	of	 on-demand 	training	and	resources 	to	  support	cross-cultural 	learning	and	  awareness 	among	all	employees.
Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  36Compensation and Benefits Boston	Scientific 	compensation 	and	  benefit	programs 	support	the	well-being 	 and	health	of	our	people	while	also	  providing 	flexibility 	to	meet	their	needs	  and	expectations.
Our 	 teams 	 continually 	 evaluate 	these	programs 	to	reach	beyond	 best	practices 	with	offerings 	that	are	  the	best	fit	for	our	employees 	in	our	  multigenerational, 	 multicultural 	 workforce.
Compensation We	believe	strongly	in	pay	for	performance.
Where	it	is	relevant	to	an	employee’s 	 responsibilities 	and	is	in	compliance 	with	 local	and	national	labor	standards, 	 we 	 strive	to	offer	both	a	base	and	a	variable	 component 	to	employee 	pay,	 including 	  annual	bonus	programs, 	 long-term 	  incentive 	stock	awards	and	performance 	 rewards	issued	on	a	one-time 	basis,	 including 	on-the-spot 	bonuses 	for	highly	 successful 	projects, 	 and 	 recognition 	  awards	for	breakthrough 	performance.
Sustaining 	equal	pay	for	equal	work	 requires	constant 	measurement 	and	 attention.
Our 	 pay 	 practices 	 support 	 the 	 company’s 	high-performance 	culture,	  including 	regular	company-wide 	bench- marking	of	salaries,	 internal 	 parity 	 audits 	 and	reviews	of	pay	recommendations 	 across	the	business.
We 	 continue 	 to 	  assess	and	fine-tune 	our	practices 	to	 Equal Pay for Equal Work: Pay Equity Global	compensation 	practices 	at	Boston	 Scientific 	are	rooted	in	our	values	and	the	 high	priority	we	place	on	paying	people	 equally	for	equal	work.
We 	 regularly 	 bench- mark	salaries,	 conduct 	 annual 	 internal 	  and	external	parity	audits	and	review	  pay	recommendations 	company 	wide.
In	addition, 	 we 	 contract 	 with 	 an 	 indepen- dent,	third 	 party2	to	annually 	assess	pay	 equity	across	all	positions 	using	regression 	 analysis.
This 	 data 	 analytics 	 approach 	  controls	for	variables 	that	influence 	  compensation 	such	as	job	position, 	 tenure,	 years	of	experience 	and	location.
We 	 use 	 the	results	to	identify	any	potential 	pay	 disparities 	that	should	be	addressed.
In	this	process,	 we 	 look 	 closely 	 at 	 both 	 pay	equity	and	pay	parity.
We 	 place 	 more 	 weight	on	pay	equity	to	advance 	inclusion, 	 equality	and	opportunity 	for	all.
In 	 2019,	 we 	 continued 	to	see	pay	equity	results	that	  reflect	our	practices 	and	the	commitment 	 of	our	leaders	to	ensure	equal	pay:	 99+ 	 percent	pay	equity	for	gender	globally	and	 99+	percent	pay	equity	for	multicultural 	 talent	in	the	United	States	and	Puerto	Rico.
In	the	few	instances 	where	we	identified 	  a	gender	disparity 	—	which	occurred 	in	  positions 	involving 	both	men	and	women   	—	we	examined 	the	circumstances 	and	 acted	to	increase	pay	where	appropriate.
improve	on	our	results,	 maintain 	 trans- parency	and	educate	leaders	on	our	pay	 equity	practices.
In 	 2019,	 our 	 compensation 	 experts	also	held	face-to-face 	meetings 	 and	teleconferences 	at	major	worksites 	 globally	to	address	employee 	questions.
2 Resolution Economics LLCHourly 2019  2018 Sales 2019  2018 Salaried 2019  2018 99.3% 99.5%99.4% 100%99.2% 99.9% 99.3% 99.3%100% 100%99.4% 100% Salaried 2019  2018 Sales 2019  2018 Hourly 2019  2018 Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations 99%+pay equity   for gender globally, and   for multicultural talent in  the U.S. and Puerto Rico Pay Equity Gender (Global) Multicultural Talent (U.S./Puerto Rico) Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  37Benefits We	understand 	that	good	health,	  well-being, 	 financial 	 health 	 and 	 security 	  are essential for a productive and   thriving	workforce.
One 	 of 	 the 	 important 	 ways	we	support	a	culture	of	health	  for	our	people	is	by	providing 	them	  with	comprehensive 	benefits.
Our	benefits	plans	are	based	on	these	 principles:    Enable high-performing talent: As   part	of	a	broader	rewards	portfolio, 	 we 	 offer	market	competitive 	benefits	that	  are	flexible	and	affordable 	to	meet	the	  individual 	needs	of	our	increasingly 	 diverse	talent	base.
Support life-work integration: 	We	strive	 to	offer	programs 	that	acknowledge, 	 respect	and	support	an	individual’s 	life	 and	work	choices.
Promote well-being: 	Our	programs 	are	 holistic in approach and designed to  support	physical, 	 emotional, 	 social 	 and 	 financial 	well-being.
Value and cultural fit: 	We	strive	to	  offer	benefits	that	our	employees 	value,	 differentiate 	our	culture	and	support	  an	inclusive 	work	environment.
Communication and tools: 	We	aim	  to	communicate 	in	a	manner	that	  makes	our	plans	easy	to	use	and	  enables	employees 	to	take	action   to	achieve	well-being.In	2019,	we 	 addressed 	 the 	 increasingly 	  varied	needs	for	support	and	flexibility   in	our	workforce, 	 which 	 is 	 more 	  multigenerational 	than	ever	before.
In 	 Japan,	we 	 developed 	 a 	 handbook 	 and 	  new	managerial 	practices 	to	support	  women	returning 	to	work	after	childbirth 	  or	other	career	break.
We	a lso	c ompleted 	  a	Workflex 	pilot	program 	in	t he	U nited	 States	aimed	at	improving 	life-work 	  satisfaction 	and	expanded 	financial 	 wellness 	benefits	to	address	the	needs	 of	employees, 	 from 	 those 	 starting 	 their 	 careers	and	building	financial 	profiles	to	 those	investing 	for	retirement.
We	took	further	action	to	acknowledge 	 that	“f amily” 	 has 	 become 	 a 	 broadly 	 defined 	 and	inclusive 	term.
The 	 following 	 benefits 	 became	effective 	in	2019	or	in	January	of	 2020.
EMEA paid parental leave: In the   EMEA	region,	 we 	 significantly 	 expanded 	 parental	leave	for	employees.
All 	 new 	 parents	working	at	Boston	Scientific 	  sites	in	the	region	are	now	eligible	for	  a	minimum 	of	18	weeks	of	fully	paid	 leave	during	the	first	year	of	their	child’s	 birth	or	adoption.
Women’s and family health: In the   United	States,	 we 	 partnered 	 with 	 the 	  virtual clinic Maven to expand our   offerings 	for	employees 	and	their	  partners 	who	are	pregnant, 	 up 	 to 	 six 	Global Employee Assistance Programs The	company’s 	Global	Employee 	Assistance 	 Programs 	maintain 	a	network	of	support	 and resources that encourage overall  well-being, 	 including 	 help 	 with 	 finances, 	 family	life,	 elder/childcare 	 and 	 mental 	 health.
We 	 continued 	 to 	 broaden 	 the 	  availability 	of	these	programs 	to	include	 all	countries 	where	our	company 	has	a	 concentration 	of	employees.
Embracing Life-Work Needs Our	Global	Benefits	to	Fit	Your	Life	program 	 is a package of solutions designed to   make	life-work 	integration 	easier	for	all	 employees, 	 regardless 	 of 	 their 	 stage 	 of 	 life.
It	provides 	 the 	 benefits 	 and 	 services 	 our	employees 	want	in	order	to	be	happy,	 productive and engaged in their roles.
Our	life-work 	offerings 	include	telehealth 	 services, 	 childcare 	 and 	 parental 	 care 	  benefits, 	 college 	 and 	 financial 	 planning, 	  a	breast	milk	shipping 	service,	 tuition 	  support,	 a 	 meal-planning 	 service 	 and 	  sabbaticals 	for	employees 	with	more	  than	seven	years	of	service.months	postpartum 	or	pursuing 	fertility	 treatment.
No-cost 	 benefits 	 available 	 through Maven include support through  egg	freezing, 	 fertility,	 pregnancy, 	  postpartum, 	 adoption, 	 surrogacy, 	 early 	 pediatrics 	and	returning 	to	work.
U.S. paid parental leave: 	Benefits	are	 available 	to	all	employees 	who	are	 new	parents	—	birth	parents,	 non-birth 	 parents,	 adoptive 	 parents 	 and 	 now 	 for	parents	who	have	a	child	through	 surrogacy.
In 	 2020,	 we 	 also 	 expanded 	 non-birth 	paid	parental	bonding 	leave	  to	eight	weeks.
Surrogacy benefits: 	We	introduced 	  a	surrogacy 	expense 	reimbursement 	  program 	so	U.S.	 employees 	 who 	 have 	  a	child	through	surrogacy 	now	have	  benefits	similar	to	those	we	offer	  employees 	who	adopt	children.
Expanded fertility benefit: 	We	enhanced 	  our	employee 	fertility	benefit	for	U.S.	  employees 	to	cover	treatments 	without	 any	diagnosis 	requirements, 	 making 	 it 	 easier	for	employees 	to	receive	assisted	 reproductive 	technology, 	 including 	  those	who	are	single	or	in	same-sex 	 relationships.
To	learn	more	about	our	benefit	programs 	 and	services, 	 visit 	BenefitsConnect.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Employee Health and Safety Boston	Scientific 	takes	a	global	approach 	  to	prioritizing, 	 executing 	 and 	 monitoring 	  efforts	to	ensure	employee 	safety	and	  foster	a	safety-oriented 	culture	in	all	of	  our	offices	and	facilities.
We	set	health	and	safety	goals	called	Total	 Recordable 	Incident	Rate	(TRIR)	targets	for	 every	Boston	Scientific 	operations 	site.
To 	 measure 	the	number	of	injuries	per	100	 employees, 	 our 	 EHS 	 Operations 	 Council 	 reviews	performance 	monthly	to	discuss	 trends	and	risks,	 as 	 well 	 as 	 opportunities 	 for	improvement.Occupational Health and Well-being The	people	of	Boston	Scientific 	are	  our	most	valuable 	resource, 	 and 	 a 	  comprehensive 	occupational 	health	and	 well-being 	program 	is	an	integral	part	  of	our	employee 	support	system.
Our 	  Occupation Health Council expands the  reach	of	our	health	and	wellness 	programs 	 with	offerings 	including 	employee 	  nutrition, 	 healthy 	 minds,	 healthy 	 bodies,	 weight	management 	support,	 yoga,   mindfulness 	meditation, 	 smoking 	 cessation 	 support	and	group	sporting 	events.
We 	 also	broadened 	our	focus	on	mental	  health	awareness 	and	developed 	more	 ways	to	offer	help,	 resources 	 and 	 referrals 	  to care providers.During	the	year	we	expanded 	the	TRIR	goal	 to	include	our	global	organization 	and	set	 a	goal	of	0.25	by	2030,	 cutting 	 our 	 incident 	 rate	by	50	percent	across	the	company.
This	new	2030	TRIR	goal	will	be	a	key	  performance 	indicator 	incorporated 	into	 our	company-wide 	performance 	tracking	 for	safety,	 quality,	 service 	 and 	 cost.
We	integrate 	multiple	health	and	safety	 metrics	in	our	Environment, 	 Health 	 and 	 Safety	monitoring 	systems	at	both	the	  local	and	global	level	in	accordance 	with	 the Boston	Scientific 	EHS	policy .
Our   performance 	against	these	metrics	is  reviewed 	daily	by	local	site	groups,	 weekly 	 in	management 	meetings 	and	monthly	 with	global	leadership 	to	identify	and	  respond	to	any	adverse	trends	or	incidents.In	2019,	we 	 promoted 	 the 	 benefits 	 of 	 volunteering 	through	community 	litter	 pickups,	 blood 	 donations, 	 group 	 mountain 	 climbs	and	our	LEAD	ERG’s	support	for	a	 “Run	1	Mile”	 event.
We	also	released 	the	EHS	Essentials 	  handbook 	for	employees 	with	EHS	  responsibilities 	throughout 	the	organization.
The	handbook 	details	our	company-wide 	 EHS	strategy	and	policy,	 and 	 establishes 	 the	expectations 	and	responsibilities 	for	  all	Boston	Scientific 	sites.
Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Total Recordable Incident Rate   (TRIR) Goals In 2019, we met our   10-year target of  0.5 TRIR   2030 Goal: 0.25 TRIR Achieve a company-wide safety goal of 0.25 injuries per 100 employeesAn employee enjoying   her workout in the   fitness center at our   global headquarters  in Marlborough,   Massachusetts.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  39Buenos Aires, Argentina   Our	Buenos	Aires	team	 moved	into	a	newly	  renovated 	office	that	 offers	collaborative 	spaces	 and	plenty	of	natural	light.
Clonmel, Ireland  The	new	open-space 	 building	on	our	Clonmel, 	 Ireland	campus	is	  designed to encourage   employee 	mobility.Shanghai, China  Our Shanghai headquarters  features a renovated   Institute for Advancing   Science	and	office	space.
Pursuit of Excellence in our Global Facilities Madrid, Spain   Our	Madrid	team	moved	 into	a	new	office	that	 features an Institute for  Advancing 	Science	as	well	 as	ample	collaboration 	 spaces.
Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations We	maintain 	facilities	at	the	 highest standards to ensure  the	company’s 	workspaces 	 promote 	optimal	physical	 health	and	overall	well-being.
Our	scientific 	environments 	 are designed to foster   creativity, 	 communication 	 and	innovation.
In 	 2019,	 our 	 facilities	teams	increased 	 the use of natural light at a  number	of	campuses 	and	 added	collaborative 	work	 areas	that	offer	employees 	  greater	flexibility, 	 more 	  networking 	opportunities 	 and	the	agility	to	do	their	 best	work.Chengdu, China  In	Chengdu, 	 China 	 we 	 opened an Institute for   Advancing 	Science,	 a 	 17,000	square-foot 	facility	  with	state-of-the-art 	  labs	and	classrooms 	for	  healthcare professionals  to	learn	about	Boston	 Scientific 	products 	and	 procedures.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  40Caring for Our Communities Our	employees 	are	the	driving	force	  behind	the	way	we	live	our	caring	value	 in	the	communities 	where	we	work.
They 	 have	a	prominent 	voice	in	how	we	invest	  in	the	well-being 	of	communities 	and	  volunteer 	to	make	the	world	a	better	  place.
Our 	 community 	 outreach 	 focuses 	  on	three	key	areas:    Health: We	aim	to	decrease 	health	  disparities 	for	the	underserved 	by	  providing 	access	to	quality	care.
This 	 work	is	grounded 	in	prevention 	through	 education 	and	awareness, 	 providing 	  access	to	care	by	increasing 	the	number	 of	qualified 	healthcare 	workers	and	  preparing 	kids	at	risk	for,	 or 	 diagnosed 	 with,	a	chronic 	 disease 	 for 	 their 	 journey 	 into adulthood.
Community: Through 	engagement 	  and	recognition 	programs, 	 we 	 are 	 empowering 	our	employees 	to	advance 	 possibilities 	in	their	local	communities 	  by	donating 	their	time	and	resources 	  to	help	those	most	in	need.
Education: As	a	longtime 	advocate 	  for	education 	and	STEM	(Science, 	  Technology, 	 Engineering 	 and 	 Math) 	  programming 	for	K-12	students, 	 we 	  are developing diverse future talent   that	will	enable	us	to	create	health	  solutions 	for	generations 	to	come.In	2016,	Boston 	 Scientific 	 partnered 	 with 	 the	health	and	humanitarian 	relief	orga- nization	Project	HOPE	to	fund	the	United	 Dialogue 	and	Action	Against	Non-Com - municable 	Disorders 	(UDAAN) 	program.
We	entered	into	this	collaboration 	to	h elp	 stem	the	significant 	rise	in	premature 	 mortality 	in	India,	 where 	 chronic 	 diseases 	 are	estimated 	to	account	for	60	percent	 of	all	deaths.
Over 	 the 	 last 	 three 	 years,	 we	worked	with	the	Project	HOPE	team	 to	implement 	the	program 	in	the	Ranchi	 district of Jharkhand State.
The	initiative 	focused	on	working	collab- oratively 	with	the	State	Government 	of	 Rajasthan 	to	deliver	services, 	 care 	 and 	 support for health practices that can   help	prevent	chronic	disease.
It 	 also 	 built 	 capacity	into	health	systems	to	identify   and	manage 	chronic	disease	in	theHEALTH: Fostering Healthy Communities  We	embrace 	the	profound 	responsibility 	 that	comes	with	our	work	in	health	care.
Because 	preventing 	illness	is	as	important 	 as	treating	it,	 our 	 health 	 awareness 	  programs 	offer	education 	and	resources 	  to	help	people	live	better,	 healthier 	 lives.
In	regions	where	people	lack	adequate 	 access	to	information 	and	basic	care,	  we	collaborate 	with	charities 	and	other	 non-governmental 	organizations 	to	  make	strides	in	reducing 	chronic	disease	 risk and health disparities in these   underserved populations.
In	an	effort	to	contribute 	to	improved 	 health	for	as	many	patients	as	possible, 	  we	share	our	products, 	 expertise, 	 time 	  and	resources 	globally.
Our 	 partnerships 	 with	Project	HOPE,	Children’s 	 HeartLink 	  and Partners in Health have helped to  increase	the	number	of	healthcare 	workers	 focused	on	chronic	disease	worldwide.
Since	2016,	 these 	 collaborations 	 have 	  provided 	training	for	more	than	2,800	 healthcare professionals and chronic   disease	screening, 	 education 	 or 	 care 	  for	more	than	23,000	people	in	India,	  South	Africa,	 Malaysia 	 and 	 Mexico.community 	and	strengthen 	the	necessary 	 referrals	to	chronic	disease	clinics,	  Accredited 	Social	Health	Activist	(ASHA)	 and	Anganwadi 	Workers	(AWW)	for	home	 follow-up 	care.
In 	 addition, 	 the 	 UDAAN 	  program’s 	education 	efforts	emphasized 	  the	importance 	of	healthy	lifestyles 	 through interpersonal counseling and   community 	mobilization.
Because 	of	the	commitment 	of	Boston	 Scientific, 	 Project 	HOPE:    Screened 	13,534	adults	between 	the	  ages	of	30	and	70	for	non-communicable 	 diseases 	(NCDs)    Trained	1,321	community 	health	workers	 and	medical	officers	on	NCD	protocols    Reached 	220,000	people	from	  200	villages Project HOPE in IndiaFeature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  41COMMUNITY: Giving Back In	2019,	more 	 than 	 10,000 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	  employee 	volunteers 	contributed 	more	 than	41,000	hours	of	their	time	in	38	 countries, 	 and 	 they 	 supported 	 more 	 than 	 600	community 	events.
Our 	 annual 	 awards 	 program, 	 which 	 recognizes 	 and 	 rewards 	 employee 	community 	service	efforts,	  received 	more	than	140	nominations.
In	2019,	Boston 	 Scientific 	 contributed 	 more	than	$85	million	to	support	medical	 research, 	 education 	 and 	 charitable 	  organizations.
We 	 provided 	 $77 	 million   in	funding	for	research, 	 education 	 and 	  fellowships 	addressing 	a	broad	spectrum 	 of health conditions and diseases.
Our	charitable 	donations 	to	support   communities 	around	the	globe	totaled	 more	than	$8.1	million.
In	addition, 	 as 	 a 	 result 	 of 	 employee 	  participation 	in	the	Boston	Scientific   Employee 	Matching 	Gifts	Program, 	 we 	 made	$1.2	million	in	contributions.
Possibility Grants Boston	Scientific 	employees 	from	our	  Massachusetts and Minnesota facilities  have	the	opportunity 	to	nominate 	local	 non-profits 	for	Possibility 	Grants	that	help	 meet	a	significant 	community 	need.
In 	 2019,	we 	 awarded 	 $15,000 	 in 	 Possibility 	 Grants	to	10	non-profit 	groups.
Community 	 efforts	and	improvements 	supported 	by	 these	grant	recipients 	include:   A local school’s new program 	to	offer	 students 	first-time 	access	to	robots    Repairs for a farm that provides   enrichment 	programs 	for	individuals 	  with	and	without	disabilities    New shelving for a food pantry to   provide access for all clients regardless   of	mobility	restrictions    STEM experiences for students 	from	 homeless 	families	who	are	placed	in	 transitional housing facilities Week of Caring In	the	second	annual	Boston	Scientific 	 Week	of	Caring,	 employees 	 in 	 over 	 15 	  countries 	demonstrated 	the	positive	  difference 	we	can	make	together 	 through	an	impressive 	range	of	  community 	projects.
Our 	 contributions 	 included 	book	drives	for	hospital	  libraries	in	Greece,	 a 	 fitness 	 challenge   in	Galway,	 Ireland 	 and 	 disaster 	 relief 	  supply	campaign 	in	Singapore.
In 	 Latin 	 America, 	 employees 	 mobilized 	 to 	  commemorate 	World	Environment 	  Day	with	tree	plantings 	and	other	  green	initiatives.
In 	 Malaysia, 	 we 	 hosted 	  a	blood	donation 	campaign 	and	worked	 with	local	charities 	to	expand	their	  outreach.
Closer 	t o 	our 	global 	headquar ters 	  in	Massachusetts, 	 we 	 sponsored 	 volunteer 	 awareness 	events	and	deployed 	teams	  to	staff	28	community 	projects	in	the	  Boston area.10,000 +   employee volunteers 41,000 + hours 38  countries 600+   community events 140+   award nominations $162+ million    in contributions for medical  research, education and charitable organizationsFeature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  China Caring Team  Employees 	in	China	volunteered 	alongside 	the	China	Mayor's	Association 	and	the	Bethune 	 Foundation 	to	help	with	local	patient	health	screenings.
The 	 first 	 event 	 of 	 this 	 initiative 	 was 	 held	in	Panzhihua, 	 Sichuan 	 Province.
With 	 the 	 assistance 	 of 	 the 	 local 	 government 	 and 	 the 	 Panzhihua 	Chinese-Western 	Hospital, 	 more 	 than 	 300 	 patients 	 received 	 blood 	 pressure 	  screenings 	and	education 	materials 	on	various	medical	conditions.Colon Cancer Awareness Events  The	Southern 	California 	Endoscopy 	Sales	 Team	joined	their	local	customers 	to	  host	colon	cancer	awareness 	events	led	  by	California 	hospitals 	and	communities.
The	purpose	of	the	events	was	to	reach	 at-risk	individuals 	in	the	community 	and	 provide	them	with	information 	as	well	as	 access to colon cancer screenings.
Volunteer Recognition Awards  The	Boston	Scientific 	Global	Community 	 Engagement 	team	announced 	the	three	 winners	of	our	second	annual	Volunteer 	 Recognition 	Awards.
Nearly 	 100 	 employees 	  from	24	countries 	were	nominated 	for	 their	commitments 	to	improving 	their	local	 and	global	communities.
Our 	 honorees’ 	 contributions 	included 	grassroots 	volunteer 	 campaigns, 	 advocacy 	 for 	 disabled 	 athletes, 	 and	leadership 	that	resulted	in	medical	  and	humanitarian 	missions.STEM and Family in Seoul  Employees 	and	their	children	gathered 	  in Seoul for our South Korea STEM and   Family	Event.
Using	a 	 bring-your-child-to- work	approach, 	 the 	 program 	 offered 	 an 	 opportunity 	for	kids	to	develop	an	interest	  in	STEM	as	they	learned	about	Boston	  Scientific, 	 our 	 products 	 and 	 what 	 their 	  parents	do	at	work.
Participants 	 were 	  also	trained	in	CPR	and	how	to	help	in	  a	life-threatening 	situation.
Rhythm Management Product   Donation Program  We	support	U.S.	 physicians 	 with 	 resources 	  for	their	humanitarian 	missions.
Our 	  Cardiac	Rhythm	Management 	and	  Electrophysiology 	Grant	Committee 	  reviews	and	approves 	applications 	from	 doctors	for	indigent	care	and	humanitarian 	 product	donations.
In 	 2019,	 the 	 committee 	 approved 	$180,000 	in	funding	for	missions 	 to	Egypt,	 India,	 Honduras, 	 Bolivia,	 Lebanon 	 and	Dominican 	Republic.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations 2019 Highlights: Caring for Customers, Communities and Patients “ In nearly 30 years of working a t Boston   Scientific, I’ve never been prouder of how  our teams embrace so many significant ways of caring.”    — Marilee Grant, Director, Boston Scientific Global Community   Engagement  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  EDUCATION: Inspiring the   Next Generation of STEM Innovators Our	employee 	volunteers 	bring	their	  energy	and	expertise 	to	introduce 	K-12	 youth	to	STEM	experiences 	and	careers.
In	our	work	to	inspire	a	diverse	generation 	 of	STEM	innovators, 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	  brings	customized 	STEM	activities 	and	  interactive 	experiences 	to	the	young	  people	in	the	communities 	we	serve.
Our	teams	are	especially 	interested 	in	  introducing 	students 	from	under-   represented 	populations 	to	the	possibilities 	 STEM	learning	can	provide.
They 	 consult 	 with	educators 	to	better	understand 	  students’ 	 needs 	 and 	 conduct 	 STEM 	  outreach 	through	a	combination 	of	  mentoring, 	 sharing 	 career 	 experiences 	  and leading participants through   hands-on 	experiments 	and	onsite	tours.
Boston	Scientific 	has	dedicated 	volunteer 	 teams	focused	on	STEM	programming 	at	 13	sites.
Their 	 work 	 to 	 help 	 grow 	 a 	 future 	 pipeline	of	diverse	talent	includes	finding	 creative	ways	to	share	their	passion	for	 their	work,	 from 	 career 	 cards 	 and 	 videos 	  to events that introduce students to a   variety	of	STEM	roles.
In 	 2019,	 our 	  people	contributed:    12,000+ STEM volunteer hours    1,500+ STEM volunteers    160+ STEM eventsSTEM Camp in Puerto Rico The	Boston	Scientific 	Dorado	manufacturing 	plant	hosted	19	  public	school	students 	for	an	intensive 	one-week 	summer 	  technology 	camp.
The 	 program, 	 designed 	 and 	 led 	 by 	 our 	 local 	 STEM	team,	 focused 	 on 	 how 	 to 	 put 	 new 	 concepts 	 for 	 innovation 	 into	practice.
Students 	 participated 	 in 	 problem-solving 	  activities 	and	took	on	challenges 	such	as	applying 	Newton’s 	  Laws	and	constructing 	a	robot.
Technical Training in India Employees 	in	Gurgaon 	partnered 	with	the	Kiki	Centre	for	Technology 	  to	offer	a	new	pathway 	for	youth	to	apply	skills	they	learn	in	the	 classroom 	to	real-world 	experiences.
Students 	 enrolled 	 in 	 the 	 three-year 	technical 	training	course	received 	classroom 	instruction 	 and	industry	training	with	local	businesses.
Three 	 students 	 selected 	 for	Boston	Scientific 	internships 	completed 	their	first	year	of	training	 in	2019.
Future Med-Tech in China At	Boston	Scientific 	Shanghai, 	 we 	 welcomed 	 30 	 sixth 	 graders 	 for 	 a 	 day	of	STEM	activities 	that	included 	a	site	tour,	 a 	 3D-surgery 	 tutorial 	 and	simulated 	surgical	operations.
A 	 highlight 	 of 	 the 	 event 	 was 	 the 	 launch	of	Design	Thinking 	with	Future	Med-Tech, 	 a 	 new 	 interactive 	 program 	developed 	with	the	help	of	JA	China.
The 	 curriculum 	 was 	 designed 	to	inspire	innovation 	and	show	students 	how	new	ways	 of thinking can lead to healthcare solutions.Our Commitment to STEM Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Every day, Boston Scientific is.
helping shape the future of our planet.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations  Our Plane t 46  GEMS	Key	Performance 	Indicators 47	 Climate 	Change 48	 Environmental 	Impact 50 Green	Team	Environmental 	  	 Sustainability 	Initiatives Boston Scientific employees participating   in a tree planting event in Colombia in   September 2019.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  45Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations A	critical	challenge 	for	us	as	a	global	  medical	device	manufacturer 	is	to	deliver	 on	our	promise	to	customers 	and	patients	 while	caring	for	the	planet.
The 	 way 	 we 	 do 	 our	jobs	each	day	contributes 	to	reducing 	 our	environmental 	impacts, 	 achieving 	  carbon	neutrality 	and	improving 	supply	  chain	sustainability.
We 	 are 	 making 	 measurable 	progress 	toward	shaping	a	 better	future	for	our	planet	by	proactively 	 addressing 	energy	consumption, 	 carbon 	 emissions, 	 waste 	 management 	 and 	  water	use.
The Boston	Scientific 	Environment, 	 Health 	 and	Safety	(EHS)	Policy  outlines our high  environmental 	standards 	and	is	central	to	 the	work	of	our	newly	established 	EHS	  Center	of	Excellence.
We 	 rigorously 	 measure, 	 assess	and	report	progress 	toward	our	 EHS	goals	globally.
Across 	 all 	 operations 	 and	key	distribution 	locations, 	 we 	 strive 	 to 	 meet	and	exceed	International 	Organiza - tion	for	Standardization 	(ISO)	standards 	for	 environmental 	management 	systems.
In 	 2019,	our 	 newest 	 manufacturing 	 location 	 in 	 Penang,	 Malaysia 	 achieved 	 ISO 	 14001:2015 	 certification.
Of 	 the 	 16 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 sites	that	have	earned	this	certification, 	 13 	 facilities	achieved 	zero	non-conformances 	 during	the	2019	audit	cycle.Our	Global	Energy	Management 	  System	(GEMS)	helps	ensure	that	we	  meet	ambitious 	energy	reduction 	  and	greenhouse 	gas	(GHG)	reduction 	  targets using the C3	strategy	(Cut,	  Convert,	 Compensate).
Developed 	  in	collaboration 	with	the	National 	  University 	of	Ireland,	 Galway 	 (NUI 	  Galway), 	 GEMS 	 focuses 	 on 	 cutting 	  energy	use,	 converting 	 to 	 renewable 	  energy	resources 	instead	of	fossil	  fuels	and	compensating 	with	carbon	  offset	projects	where	needed.
Our 	  advances 	through	GEMS	earned	  Boston	Scientific 	and	NUI	Galway	  recognition 	as	finalists	for	the	2019  US-Ireland 	Research 	Innovation 	Awards,	  a	joint	initiative 	of	the	Royal	Irish  Academy 	and	the	American 	  Chamber 	of	Commerce, 	 Ireland.
We	are	continually 	monitoring 	progress 	 through	GEMS	and	our	teams	are	  working	to	meet	or	exceed	the	following 	 targets	with	the	overall	goal	of	achieving 	 carbon	neutrality 	by	2030:    50	percent	renewable 	electricity 	by	   100	percent	renewable 	electricity 	by	   90	percent	renewable 	energy	(all	sources)	 by	2027Our Planet  “ W orking in the healthcare space, we   have the privilege to help advance  science and improve patient health,  but we also have the responsibility to  do this work in a sustainable manner  that enriches communities.
We’ve set  aggressive environmental goals to do our part to help shape a better future  for our planet, and we’re holding  ourselves accountable.”    — Brad Sorenson, Senior Vice President, Boston Scientific   Manufacturing and Supply Chain Our targets to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030: 50%    renewable   electricity  by  100%   renewable  electricity  by  90%    renewable  energy (all  sources) by 2027 Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  46The GEMS methodology is implemented through our global energy team, including representatives from each Boston Scientific manufacturing and main   distribution sites.
We measure our performance through these GEMS key performance indicators (KPIs):    20 15  20 16  20 17  20 18  20  Carbon F ootprint   Total	amount	of	Scope	1	and	Scope	2	GHG	emissions 	emitted	into	the	 118,327 		 108,694	 94,946	 85,127	84,778   (MT CO2eq)   atmosphere 	from	manufacturing 	and	distribution 	sites.
Measured 	 in  metric	tons	of	carbon	equivalent.
Ener gy Use  (kWh)   Total	energy	Boston	Scientific 	consumes 	annually 	to	manufacture	 3 70M	 367M	 364M	 352M	368M   our products.
Ener gy Use kWh/$K   Total	normalized 	energy	Boston	Scientific 	consumes 	annually 	to	 4 9	 44	 40	 36	34   Revenue  manufacture 	our	products.
EM3		 	An 	 energy 	 management 	 maturity 	 model 	 to 	 establish 	 where 	 in 	 the	 2.7	 3.2	 3.6	 3.7	3.9  “energy	journey”	 each 	 manufacturing 	 site 	 resides 	 on 	 a 	 scale 	 from 	 1 	 to 	 5  (Minimal 	>	Emerging 	>	Developing 	>	Advancing 	>	Leading).
Gr een Real Estate    Percentage 	of	Boston	Scientific 	real	estate	that	is	independently	 27%	 28% 	 	 32%	 37%	45%    (% of total)   certified	for	energy	efficiency 	by	industry-leading 	programs 	such	as	  LEED	for	design	and	Energy	Star	or	ISO50001 	for	building	operations.
R enewable Energy   Percentage 	of	total	energy	consumed, 	 generated 	 from 	 renewable	 	 –	 	 –	 –	 5%	11%   (% of total)  energy	sources,	 with 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 owning 	 the 	 renewable 	 attributes.
Cleaner Ener gy 	 Energy 	produced 	from	fossil	fuels,	 but 	 based 	 on 	 high-efficiency 	 	 6%	 7%	 9%	 9%	11%   (% of total)   technologies 	such	as	combined 	heat	and	power	(CHP)	in	comparison 	  to	conventional 	power	generation.
Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  47Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Climate Change By	addressing 	the	company’s 	energy	  consumption, 	 carbon 	 emissions 	 and 	  environmental 	design,	 we 	 are 	 reducing 	  our	climate	impacts.
Striving for Carbon Neutrality Boston	Scientific 	is	committed 	to	achieving 	 carbon	neutrality 	across	our	manufacturing 	 and	key	distribution 	sites	by	2030.
Carbon 	 neutrality 	means	achieving 	net	zero	carbon	 emissions 	associated 	with	manufacturing 	 operations 	and	energy	use	by	balancing 	 the	amount	of	carbon	released 	with	an	 equal	amount	removed 	or	compensated.
Increased 	levels	of	carbon	dioxide	and	 other	GHG	emissions 	in	the	atmosphere 	 are	closely	tied	to	climate	change,	  and	achieving 	carbon	neutrality 	will	  significantly 	reduce	our	contribution   to this pressing issue.
Leading in Energy Certification Sustainability 	is	a	critical	objective 	for	our	 global	facilities' 	teams	as	we	focus	on	  improving 	existing	sites	and	developing 	 new	construction 	in	an	environmentally 	 responsible 	manner.
Leadership 	in	Energy	and	Environmental 	 Design	(LEED)	is	an	internationally 	  recognized 	certification 	program 	for	  the	environmental 	performance 	and	  sustainable 	design	of	buildings.
Boston 	  Scientific 	now	has	14	LEED-certified 	  buildings 	on	campuses 	in	the	United	States,	Central 	 America, 	 Europe 	 and 	  Asia,	including 	 our 	 San 	 Jose 	 Baytech 	  site	in	California, 	 which 	 achieved 	  LEED	certification 	in	2019.
In 	 Sweden,   our	Helsingborg 	Office	achieved 	  "Miljöbyggnad” 	 Silver	certification   from	the	Sweden	Green	Building	  Council,	 Sweden's 	 largest 	 organization 	  for	sustainable 	community 	building.
Continual 	improvement 	in	the	energy	  performance 	of	our	manufacturing 	  operations 	has	earned	ISO	certification 	for	 five	of	our	manufacturing 	locations.
The 	 company’s 	two	Costa	Rica	manufacturing 	  sites	in	Coyol	and	Heredia	have	been	  carbon-neutral 	since	2016	and	received   ISO	50001:2011 	certification 	the	following 	  year.
In	2019,	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 facilities 	  in	Clonmel, 	 Cork 	 and 	 Galway,	 Ireland 	 achieved 	ISO	50001:2018 	certification.
Our	distribution 	center	in	Kerkrade, 	  Netherlands 	maintained 	its	3rd Lean   &	Green	Star	certification, 	 first 	 awarded 	  in	2018	by	Europe’s 	leading	program 	  for	sustainable 	logistics.
We 	 are 	 one 	  of	only	nine	companies 	in	Europe	  to	receive	this	award	for	carbon	  emissions 	reduction.
In	total,	Boston 	 Scientific 	 operates 	  4.3	million	square	feet	of	independently 	 certified	green	real	estate	that	supports 	 our	energy	performance 	and	sustainability 	 goals,	representing 	 45 	 percent 	 of 	 our 	  footprint 	worldwide.
We have committed to achieving  carbon neutrality in all of  our manufacturing and key  distribution sites by 2030.
LEEDing Locations 45% of our global footprint worldwide is green real estate United States  San	Jose	Baytech, 	 California	 LEED 	 Silver 	 Maple 	 Grove,	 Minnesota	 LEED 	 Silver 	 / 	 LEED 	 Certified 	 Marlborough, 	 Massachusetts	 LEED 	 Gold 	 / 	 LEED 	 Certified 	 Quincy,	 Massachusetts	 LEED 	 Silver 	 / 	 LEED 	 Certified 	 Central America   Coyol,	Costa 	 Rica	 LEED 	 Silver 	 / 	 ISO 	 50001:	 Heredia,	 Costa 	 Rica	 ISO 	 50001:Europe	 Clonmel, 	 Ireland	 ISO 	 50001:	 Cork,	 Ireland	 ISO 	 50001:	 Galway,	 Ireland	 ISO 	 50001:	 Kerkrade, 	 Netherlands	 LEED 	 Silver 	 / 	 Lean 	 and 	 Green 	 Helsingborg, 	 Sweden	 	Miljöbyggnad 	 Silver Asia	 Beijing,	 China	 LEED 	 Silver 	 / 	 LEED 	 Certified 	 Shanghai, 	 China	 LEED 	 Silver 	 Penang,	 Malaysia	 LEED 	 Silver  Singapor e  LEED Silver Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  48Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Investing in Renewable Energy  Our	work	to	reduce	GHG	emissions 	  includes	investing 	in	renewable 	energy.
At	two	of	the	company's 	locations 	in	  Massachusetts, 	 we 	 have 	 onsite 	 solar 	  installations 	that	generated 	a	combined 	 total	of	3.1	million	kilowatt-hours 	of	  renewable 	electricity 	in	2019,	 resulting 	  in	savings	of	nearly	1,000	metric	tons	  of	GHG	emissions.
At 	 our 	 Marlborough 	 headquarters 	and	Quincy	distribution 	  center,	solar 	 energy 	 was 	 responsible 	  for 46 percent and 45 percent of the   electricity 	required 	to	operate,	 respectively.
Also	in	Massachusetts, 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	  became	the	anchor	business 	customer 	  for	a	new	12.9-megawatt 	community 	  solar	development, 	 a 	 project 	 involving 	 large	and	small	businesses 	and	residential 	 households 	that	will	increase	access	to	 clean	energy	across	the	state.We	continue 	to	make	progress 	toward	  our	goal	of	purchasing 	100	percent	  renewable 	electricity 	by	2024.
In 	 2019,	  our	three	manufacturing 	sites	in	Ireland	 marked	their	first	full	year	of	operating 	with	 certified	100	percent	renewable 	electricity.
Over	the	course	of	the	year,	 renewable 	  energy	accounted 	for	11	percent	of	our	  energy	purchased.
In 	 addition, 	 we 	 executed 	 a	virtual	power	purchase 	agreement 	for	 100	percent	renewable 	electricity 	for	our	 U.S.	energy 	 needs.
Environmental Impact As	a	company 	with	a	global	footprint 	and	 global	impact,	 we 	 have 	 a 	 responsibility 	  to	carefully	manage 	the	materials 	in	our	 products 	and	packaging, 	 the 	 resources 	 used	to	manufacture 	and	transport 	them	 and	what	happens 	to	any	waste	generated.
We	measure 	waste	generation 	and	  water	use	at	our	major	manufacturing 	  and	distribution 	facilities	through	the	  implementation 	of	ISO	14001:2015.
The 	  Boston	Scientific 	plant	in	Malaysia 	achieved 	 ISO	14001:2015 	certification 	in	2019,	 and 	 we 	 now	have	16	sites	certified	to	this	standard.
Waste Management Sustainable 	waste	management 	continues 	 to	be	a	significant 	priority	for	Boston	  Scientific.
We 	 have 	 adopted 	 international 	 best	practices 	and	research-based 	protocols 	 as	our	teams	work	to	continually 	make	 greater	progress.
In 	 2019,	 we 	 recycled 	 80 	 percent	—	8,943	metric	tons	—	of	total	  solid	waste.
The 	 company’s 	 operations 	  and	primary	distribution 	sites	recycled	  or	recovered 	54	percent	of	hazardous 	  and	regulated 	waste	generated.
We 	  also	diverted	95	percent	of	solid	waste	 from	landfills.
In	addition, 	 we 	 almost 	 met 	 our 	 10-year 	  environmental 	goal	of	an	81	percent	  recycling 	rate.
In 	 2019,	 we 	 evaluated 	 our 	 efforts	and	committed 	to	a	2030	goal	of	 achieving TRUE	Zero	Waste	Certification    for	our	operations 	and	key	distribution 	 sites.
This 	 certification 	 will 	 create 	 a 	  framework 	for	minimizing 	non-hazardous 	 solid	wastes	and	maximizing 	efficiency 	  in	the	company’s 	use	of	resources.
Solar installment at Boston Scientific global    headquarters in Marlborough, MassachusettsClearway Energy Group community solar project in Massachusetts Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Conserving Water We	understand 	the	importance 	of	water	as	 a	shared	resource.
While 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 operations 	are	not	water-intensive, 	 we 	  are	committed 	to	minimizing 	consumption 	 and	being	prepared 	for	environmental 	 challenges 	such	as	water	scarcity.
In 	 2019,	 we	conducted 	an	assessment 	of	water-   related risks and opportunities at all   manufacturing 	and	central	distribution 	  sites	based	on	local	water	stress	and	  intensity 	of	water	use.
Using 	 the 	 World 	  Resources 	Institute	Aqueduct 	—	a	global	 water	risk-mapping 	tool	—	we	determined 	 that	11	locations 	are	at	low	overall	  water-related 	risk,	 and 	 six 	 facilities 	 are 	  in	the	low-to-medium 	water-related 	  risk	category.
This 	 effort 	 will 	 expand 	  in	2020	to	include	the	company’s 	  significant 	commercial 	operations.
Water	usage	at	our	manufacturing 	and	 major	distribution 	centers	is	predominantly 	 associated 	with	headcount; 	 only 	 25 	 percent 	  of	our	consumption 	is	associated 	with	  production 	processes.
Even 	 with 	 a 	  12.5	percent	increase	in	headcount 	in	  2019,	we 	 consumed 	 marginally 	 less 	  water	than	in	2018.
Over 	 the 	 past 	 10 	 years,	  we	have	reduced	water	consumption 	  by	30	percent.Recognitions for   Sustainability Leadership     FTSE4Good Constituent: Boston   Scientific 	earned	2019	certification 	  in	the	FTSE4Good 	Corporate 	Social	  Responsibility 	Index,	 which 	 measures 	  the	performance 	of	companies 	 demonstrating 	strong	Environmental, 	 Social	and	Governance 	(ESG)	practices.
Chelsea Santucci Greenovation Awards:  Boston	Scientific 	sites	in	  Dorado	and	Maple	Grove	were	  honored 	for	their	environmental 	  performance 	and	sustainability 	  efforts	by	Kimberly-Clark 	Professional.Double Wins: Greenovation Award Our	teams	in	Dorado,	 Puerto 	 Rico 	 and 	 Maple 	 Grove,	 Minnesota 	 received 	 2019 	 Chelsea 	 Santucci 	Greenovation 	Awards	for	results	they	achieved 	as	participants 	in	RightCycle, 	  the	first	large-scale 	recycling 	program 	for	non-hazardous 	laboratory 	and	industrial 	waste.
Through 	an	intensive 	effort	to	collect	previously 	hard-to-recycle 	nitrile	gloves,	 the 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	team	in	Dorado	diverted	12,385	pounds	of	gloves	from	local	landfills	and	won	 Greenovation 	honors	for	the	second	year	in	a	row.
In 	 Maple 	 Grove,	 our 	 employees 	  collected 	enough	nontraditional 	waste	—	gloves	as	well	as	single-use 	garments, 	 hoods 	 and	boot	covers	—	to	divert	35,500	pounds	of	waste	from	landfills,	 winning 	 Greenovation 	 recognition 	for	the	fifth	consecutive 	year.
The	Greenovation 	awards	were	established 	in	2013	and	renamed 	in	2015	in	honor	of	 Chelsea	Santucci, 	 a 	 former 	 Kimberly-Clark 	 Professional 	 employee 	 who 	 was 	 instrumental 	 in	creating	the	RightCycle 	program 	before	dying	of	cancer	at	age	26.
Ariel Gonzalez, Boston Scientific EHS manager in Dorado, Puerto Rico, receiving the   Greenovation Award from Daniel Perez, Kimberly-Clark representative.30% decrease in   water consumption* 80% of total   solid waste recycled 95% of solid waste   diverted from landfills *Compared to 2009 baseline Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Green Team Environmental   Sustainability Initiatives Boston	Scientific 	Green	Team	initiatives 	 are	inspired	and	led	by	employees 	across	 the	globe.
Every 	 year,	 they 	 organize 	 and 	 implement 	projects	focused	on	reducing 	 the	company’s 	environmental 	footprint 	  and	improving 	the	communities 	where	  our	people	live	and	work.
Their 	 efforts 	  help	to	strengthen 	our	business 	practices 	 while	raising	environmental 	awareness 	  and supporting local partners dedicated   to caring for our planet.
Our	Green	Teams	continued 	to	embrace 	 sustainability 	in	2019.
In 	Kerkrade,   Netherlands ,	employees 	 collected 	 plastic 	 lids	and	donated 	the	recycling 	refunds	to	 the	Royal	Dutch	Guide	Dog	Foundation 	 (KNGF	Geleidehonden).
Milan, Italy   employees 	organized 	an	initiative 	to	  eliminate 	complimentary 	water	bottles	 from	workplace 	common 	areas.
Similarly, 	 we	eliminated 	water	bottles	in	meeting 	 rooms	and	kitchens	in	all	of	our	Latin  America 	sales	offices.
The 	Warsaw, Poland  Green	Team	led	an	effort	to	install	water	 dispensers 	for	employees 	and	organized 	  a	World	Environment 	Day	that	included 	  a	cleanup	day	at	a	local	park.
Environmental Wins in Minnesota A	newly	organized 	Green	Team	in	  Minnetonka, Minnesota 	made	its	mark	  with	a	series	of	projects.
They 	 started 	  an	onsite	volunteer 	garden,	 successfully   implemented 	a	campaign 	to	eliminate 	 onsite	disposable 	cup	use	and	held	a	  first	annual	“Ec olympics” 	 to 	 educate 	  employees 	about	the	environment.
In 	  May,	the	 team 	 completed 	 a 	 utility-funded 	  energy	audit	that	resulted	in	an	initial	  5	percent	reduction 	in	electricity 	use	and	  17	percent	decrease 	in	natural	gas	use.
The	Minnesota 	Safety	Council	recognized 	  the	team’s	efforts	with	a	Meritorious 	 Achievement 	Award.Cork Green Team Takes to the Shores With	the	2019	motto	“Our 	 Planet,	 Our 	  Waters,”	 the 	Cork, Ireland 	Green	Team	 members 	focused	on	making	local	  shorelines 	cleaner	and	safer.
The 	 team 	 partnered 	with	the	Cork	Water	Harbour	 Keepers	to	offer	an	employee 	education 	 program 	about	the	environmental 	impact	 of	single-use 	plastics,	 then 	 organized 	  volunteers 	for	two	local	cleanup	events.
At	the	Blackrock 	Shoreline 	Clean	in	June,	 they	picked	up	litter	along	a	stretch	of	 shore	especially 	popular	with	walkers	  and	runners.
In 	 August,	 at 	 Carrigrenan 	 beach	in	Little	Island	—	where	water	  pollution 	can	make	swimming 	unsafe	—	 they	turned	out	with	family	and	friends	  to	clear	the	high	volume	of	waste	  washed	ashore.Clean and Green in Valencia The	Boston	Scientific 	Green	Team	in	  Valencia, California 	devoted	their	time	  to	support	two	ambitious 	ecosystem 	  initiatives.
In 	 Santa 	 Clarita,	 they 	 joined 	  the	volunteer 	ranks	of	the	10th	annual	 Earth	Arbor	Day	tree-planting 	crews,	  taking	shovels	to	the	ground	at	the	city’s	 Central	Park	to	plant	10	eight-foot 	trees.
In	Santa	Monica,	 the 	 Valencia 	 Green 	  Team	worked	alongside 	more	than	13,500	 volunteers for the 35th annual Coastal  Cleanup	Day,	 an 	 effort 	 that 	 diverted 	  30,165	pounds	of	waste	from	the	aquatic	 ecosystems 	of	oceans	and	waterways.
Keeping Our Planet Clean In	2019,	Boston 	 Scientific 	 employees 	 volunteered 	 their 	 time 	 to 	 support 	 efforts 	 to 	 preserve 	 beaches 	 and 	 habitats 	 and 	 protect 	 local 	 ecosystems.
Green	Teams	also	developed 	environmental 	education 	campaigns 	and	introduced 	additional 	green	practices 	within	the	company.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations  Our P ractices 52	 Compliance, 	 Ethics 	 and 	 Integrity 55 Developing Innov ative Products 57 Innov ation Initiatives 58	 Quality 	and	Safety 61	 Sustainable 	Supply	Chain 62	 Responsible 	Marketing 62	 Customer 	Relationship 	Management 63	 Packaging 	and	Labeling 64	 Supporting 	Small	Business 	and  	 Supplier 	Diversity Boston Scientific employees help inspire the  next generation of innovators through the  Little Doctors program in Guangzhou, China.Every day, Boston Scientific is.
committing to responsible practices.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  52Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Our	business 	practices 	support	and	  ensure	our	company’s 	worldwide 	focus	  on	quality,	 safety 	 and 	 sustainability 	 as 	  we	deliver	meaningful 	innovations 	that	 make	a	difference 	in	patients' 	lives.
We 	  operate	with	a	culture	of	integrity; 	 we 	 believe	in	strong	corporate 	governance; 	 and	we	insist	on	impeccable 	ethics	and	 regulatory 	compliance.
Compliance, Ethics and Integrity Boston	Scientific 	employees 	have	a	shared	 commitment 	to:    Act	honestly 	and	ethically	in	all	company 	 matters    Protect	the	privacy	of	patients, 	 customers 	 and	employees    Treat	one	another	with	respect	and	  fairness    Hold	one	another	accountable 	to	ensure	 quality	in	all	that	we	do Our	Global	Compliance 	team	provides 	 employees 	with	the	resources 	and	training	 they	need	to	do	business 	with	integrity, 	 treat	customers 	and	suppliers 	fairly,	 and 	 report	ethics	concerns 	when	they	arise.
Led	by	our	Chief	Compliance 	Officer,	 the 	 team	collaborates 	across	the	company 	to	 monitor	our	activities 	and	performance.
The	Chief	Compliance 	Officer	reports	  quarterly 	to	the	Audit	Committee 	of	our	 Board	of	Directors 	and	more	frequently 	  as needed.Code of Conduct for Employees   and Channel Partners Every	Boston	Scientific 	employee 	is	  required to read and understand our   Code	of	Conduct, 	 which 	 is 	 the 	 foundation 	 for	all	of	our	business 	practices 	and	  relationships.
Employees 	 also 	 complete 	 multiple	mandatory 	training	curriculums 	 that	explain	company 	policies	and	  corruption- 	and	compliance-related 	risks	 and	point	them	to	resources 	where	they	 can	report	concerns.
Our 	 training 	 offers 	 scenario-based 	content	to	help	prepare	 people	to	respond	ethically	to	issues	that	 may	arise	in	their	daily	work.
The	global	marketplace 	in	which	we	  compete 	is	advancing 	rapidly,	 and 	  our	workforces 	in	many	countries 	are	  continually 	adapting 	to	new	developments 	 in	technology, 	 public 	 policies 	 and 	 the 	  environment.
In 	a 	world 	of 	c onstant 	change ,	 it’s	increasingly 	important 	that	we	provide	 our	people	with	clear	guidance 	about	how	 to	handle	ethical	challenges.
In 	 2019,	 we 	 completed 	a	year-long 	effort	to	update	  the	Boston	Scientific 	Code	of	Conduct.
Changes 	range	from	additional 	language 	 about	our	Corporate 	Social	Responsibility 	 (CSR)	commitment 	to	expanded 	provisions 	 on	conflicts	of	interest	and	patient	and	 data	privacy.
The 	 updated 	 Code 	 of 	 Conduct 	  went	into	effect	on	January	1,	 2020.
It 	 is 	 available 	online	in	21	languages.
Code of Conduct Changes The	2020	update	of	our	Code	of	Conduct 	includes:    New	language 	about	CSR	—	what	it	means	for	us	at	Boston	Scientific 	and	our	  responsibility 	as	a	global	citizen    Greater	specificity 	about	respecting patient, customer and employee privacy and   additional 	explanations 	about	ethical	and	legal	requirements    New	language 	about	the	importance 	of	maintaining a safe and healthy work   environment and	what	that	means	in	practice	    Additional 	emphasis 	on	data privacy and protecting confidential company   information    Expanded 	information 	on	conflicts of interest 	and	potential 	conflicts	that	must	be	  disclosed Our	compliance 	training	is	comprehensive.
It	includes	customer 	interactions 	training	  to	provide	guidance 	on	the	laws,	 policies 	 and	processes 	for	working	with	licensed	 healthcare 	professionals 	in	the	U.S.	 The 	 curriculum 	also	includes	anti-corruption 	 training	that	explains	compliance 	require- ments	for	interacting 	with	healthcare 	  professionals, 	 public 	 officials 	 and 	 other 	 third	parties,	 including 	 channel 	 partners 	 (e.g.,	distributors, 	 dealers 	 and 	 agents) 	 outside	the	U.S.Additional 	global	ethics	initiatives 	  include	sexual	harassment 	training	for	  all our salesforce 	managers 	as	well	as	  training	for	our	Human	Resources 	team	 on	local	and	national	laws	that	govern	 employment 	compensation, 	 sexual 	  harassment 	and	discrimination.Our Practices  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations The	Boston	Scientific 	Channel	Partner	 Code of Conduct details our expectations  for	channel	partners 	doing	business 	on	 our	behalf.
All 	 channel 	 partners 	 complete 	 mandatory 	onboarding 	training	as	well	as	 annual	ethics	training	in	which	they	pledge	 to	adhere	to	our	Code	of	Conduct.
They 	  are	also	required 	to	abide	by	national	  anti-bribery 	and	anti-corruption 	laws,	 such 	 as	the	U.S.	 Foreign 	 Corrupt 	 Practices 	 Act 	 and	the	U.K.	 Bribery 	 Act.
Our 	 third-party 	 program 	to	monitor	and	support	channel	 partners includes onsite auditing and other  procedures 	that	verify	their	compliance 	 with	our	requirements.Compliance Program Strong	alignment 	with	the	Boston	Scientific 	 Code of Conduct requires a shared sense  of	integrity	among	employees 	throughout 	 the	company.
We 	 have 	 a 	 comprehensive 	 compliance 	program 	to	prevent,	 detect 	  and	respond	to	any	conduct	or	situation 	 that	does	not	fully	conform 	with	the	Code	 of Conduct.
Advice Line As	stated	in	the	Boston	Scientific 	Code	of	 Conduct, 	 all 	 employees 	 are 	 responsible 	  for	imme diately 	 reporting 	 any 	 suspected 	 violation 	of	the	code	or	company 	policy.
In	2019,	we 	 expanded 	 efforts 	 to 	 promote 	 our Advice Line through an internal   campaign 	(see	side	bar).
T he	t oll-free	  service	is	operated 	by	a	third	party	and	  is	available 	24	hours	a	day,	 seven 	 days 	  a	week,	in 	 multiple 	 languages.
Our	Non-Retaliation 	Policy	is	an	essential 	 component 	of	our	Compliance 	Program.
It	prohibits 	any	form	of	retaliation, 	 direct 	  or	indirect,	 against 	 an 	 individual 	 who 	 raises 	 a concern in good faith.
This protection  extends	to	anyone	who	assists	with,	 or 	 cooperates 	in,	 an 	 investigation 	 or 	 report 	  of	misconduct.
Governance The	Boston	Scientific 	Board	of	Directors 	 and	Executive 	Committee 	oversee	all	 aspects	of	our	role	as	a	corporate 	citizen.
These	leaders	and	directors 	play	a	critical	 part	in	implementing 	guidelines 	to	ensure	 we	act	ethically	in	our	business 	practices, 	 comply	with	all	tax	and	business 	laws	  and	regulations, 	 and 	 remain 	 transparent 	  in our reporting.
The	Board	maintains 	charters	for	its	  governing 	committees, 	 which 	 meet 	  regularly 	to	discuss	their	respective 	areas	  of	focus.
The 	 Board’s 	 committees 	 in 	 2019 	 were	the	Audit	Committee, 	 Executive 	  Compensation 	and	Human	Resources 	 Committee, 	 Finance 	 Committee, 	 and 	  Nominating 	and	Governance 	Committee.
“ Our c aring value reminds  us to uphold the Boston  Scientific mission in a way that is fair and considerate to everyone.
This includes treating our customers, colleagues and competitors with respect.
It also means always acting with integrity and ensuring our business decisions and relationships embody that integrity.”    — Desiree Ralls-Morrison, Boston Scientific  Senior Vice President, General Counsel and  Corporate Secretary New Communications Initiatives We	launched 	new	global	employee 	  communications 	initiatives 	in	2019	to	  increase	transparency 	and	expand	aware- ness	of	our	compliance 	activities 	and	 resources.
Our 	 global 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	 newsletter 	includes	an	“Int egrity 	 Corner”	 segment 	that	features	real-world 	  examples 	of	ethical	challenges, 	 describes 	 what	happens 	when	an	ethics	concern	is	  reported 	and	an	overview 	of	compliance 	 activity.
We 	 also 	 introduced 	 an 	“Open Doors”	campaign 	 to 	 help 	 managers 	 handle 	 ethics 	 issues 	 raised 	 by 	 their 	 direct 	 reports.
In 	 addition, 	 we 	 conducted 	 an 	 all-employee 	 ethics 	 survey 	 to 	 gauge 	 employees’ 	 understanding 	 of	—	and	confidence 	in	—	how	the	company 	deals	with	ethical	concerns.
The 	 results 	 were 	 reported 	across	the	company 	and	will	inform	future	compliance 	efforts.
Boston Scientific Chairman and CEO, Mike Mahoney, participating in an integrity awareness  event at the Marlborough, Massachusetts global headquarters in 2019.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  54In	2019,	our 	 Board 	 and 	 stockholders 	  approved 	and	adopted 	two	by-law	  provisions 	that	reflect	best	practices 	and	 input	from	stockholder 	engagement.
Majority	Vote	Standard 	in	Uncontested 	 Elections: 	Under	this	standard, 	 director 	 nominees 	must	receive	a	majority	of	 votes	to	be	elected.
An 	 increasing 	  number	of	S&P	500	companies 	have	 adopted 	this	corporate 	governance 	best	 practice,	 and 	 our 	 Board 	 believes 	 it 	 will 	 enhance 	accountability 	to	stockholders.
Proxy	Access:	This	new	by-law	permits	 stockholders 	who	meet	certain	ownership 	 requirements 	to	include	a	nominee 	for	 director	election	in	the	company’s 	annual	  proxy	statement.
The 	 Board 	 expects 	  the	change	will	enhance 	stockholder 	 rights	and	increase	the	company’s 	  accountability 	to	stockholders.
Enterprise Risk Management Under	the	oversight 	of	our	Board	of	  Directors, 	 the 	 company’s 	 Enterprise 	 Risk 	 Management 	(ERM)	team	supports 	  company 	leadership 	with	background 	  and guidance on issues that could   affect	the	achievement 	of	performance 	 objectives.
ERM 	 team 	 members 	 analyze 	 strategic, 	 operational, 	 financial, 	 legal 	  and	compliance 	risks	to	ensure	we	can	 adapt	to	challenges, 	 seize 	 opportunities 	  to help patients and deliver on our   commitments 	to	stockholders.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations As	warranted, 	 the 	 ERM 	 team,	 led 	 by 	 our 	 Chief	Audit	Officer,	 communicates 	 with 	  the	Board	and	management 	to	discuss	 enterprise-level 	issues	that	present	  potential 	obstacles 	to	preserving 	and	 growing	stockholder 	value.
According 	 to 	 the	company’s 	escalation 	framework, 	 any 	 matter	that	presents 	a	potential 	risk	to	the	 company’s 	financial 	results,	 operations 	 or 	 reputation 	is	reported 	by	management 	  to	one	or	more	members 	of	the	Board.
Global Security Our	Global	Security	and	Resilience 	team	 provides 	solutions 	that	promote 	enterprise 	 resiliency 	while	protecting 	our	people,	  profitability 	and	operations.
The 	 team 	  uses	a	combination 	of	industry-standard 	 protocols 	and	global	situational 	awareness 	 to	manage 	our	security	posture	and	  maintain 	a	Global	Security	Operations 	  Center	24	hours	a	day,	 seven 	 days 	 a 	  week.
Efforts 	 to 	 continuously 	 protect 	  and	enhance 	physical	security	and	  cybersecurity 	are	supported 	by	a	network	 of	partners 	who	specialize 	in	facilities, 	  IT	security,	 environment, 	 health 	 and 	  safety,	global 	 regulation 	 and 	 data 	 privacy.
The	company’s 	global	security	and	  resilience 	experts	also	lead	a	business 	 continuity 	program 	and	resiliency 	working	 group.
To 	 maximize 	 operational 	 resiliency 	 across	global	operations, 	 our 	 facilities 	  are	prepared 	to	address	emergency 	  response, 	 enterprise 	 business 	 continuity 	 and	crisis	management.Political Involvement and Contributions Boston	Scientific 	supports 	public	policies	 that	promote 	diversity	and	inclusion 	and	 improve	our	employees’ 	 lives,	 the 	 patients 	 we	serve	and	the	communities 	where	  we	live.
We 	 advocate 	 responsibly 	 and 	 transparently 	for	inclusive 	policies	that	 focus on increasing patient access to  life-changing 	and	life-saving 	technologies.
The	company 	shares	annual updates on  contributions 	t o 	politic al 	action 	c ommittees, 	 corporate 	contributions 	to	state	officials,	 and	memberships 	in	associations 	that	 engage	in	public	policy	advocacy.
To	promote 	the	advancement 	of	sound	 public	policy,	 the 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	  Corporation 	Political	Action	Committee 	 (PAC)	facilitates 	voluntary 	political	  contributions 	by	eligible	employees 	and	 our Board of Directors in accordance   with	federal	law.
While 	 the 	 PAC 	 supports 	 our	company 	values,	 it 	 accepts 	 no 	  corporate 	contributions.
The 	 PAC 	 is 	 run 	  by	a	governing 	board	of	senior	employees 	 who	represent 	our	primary	businesses 	  and	functions.
The 	 Nominating 	 and 	  Governance 	Committee 	of	our	Board	  of	Directors 	annually 	reviews	political	  contributions 	made	by	our	company 	  and the PAC.In	partnership 	with	our	global	Employee 	 Resource 	Groups	(ERGs),	 in 	 2019 	 we 	  developed 	new	measures 	for	assessing 	 PAC	contributions 	to	candidates 	and	efforts	 that support our core values.
As part of   this	work,	 we 	 updated 	 selection 	 criteria   to	include	a	candidate’s 	character 	and	 integrity.
All 	 donations 	 also 	 now 	 include 	  a	letter	that	emphasizes 	our	company’s 	 core	values,	 including 	 the 	 importance 	 of 	 diversity	and	inclusion.
Boston	Scientific 	PAC	contributions 	  are	bipartisan 	and	based	on	the  following 	criteria:	    Candidate sits on a congressional  committee 	with	jurisdiction 	over	issues	 affecting 	our	business    Candidate serves in elected leadership  within	Congress 	or	in	a	position	that	 shapes	public	policy    Candidate represents a district or state  with	a	Boston	Scientific 	facility    Candidate’s 	voting	record	supports 	key	 issues	affecting 	Boston	Scientific    Candidate’s 	character 	and	integrity, 	 including 	his	or	her	statements 	and	  positions, 	 do 	 not 	 conflict 	 with 	 the 	  company’s 	core	values	 Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Human Rights At	Boston	Scientific, 	 we 	 believe 	 that 	  corporations 	have	a	responsibility 	to	  respect	and	protect	human	rights.
We	support	the	United	Nations	(UN)	  International Bill of Rights and its   founding principles.
The International   Bill	of	Human	Rights	consists	of:    the	Universal 	Declaration 	of	  Human	Rights,	    the International Covenant on   Economic, 	 Social 	 and 	 Cultural 	 Rights,	    the International Covenant   on Civil and Political Rights and   its	two	Optional 	Protocols.
We	adhere	to	all	applicable 	labor	and	  human	rights	laws,	 including 	 those 	  related	to	slavery,	 child 	 labor,	 human 	  trafficking, 	 bribery,	 discrimination, 	  harassment 	and	pay	equity.
We 	 require 	  that	our	third-party 	partners 	do	as	well.
Our	company’s 	efforts	to	uphold	and	 protect	human	rights	include	support	for	 the rights of children to have access to  education, 	 health 	 care 	 and 	 protection 	 from 	 criminal	behavior.
We 	 take 	 the 	 necessary 	 steps	to	ensure	that	forced	labor	and	  human	trafficking 	do	not	take	place	in	  our	business 	or	supply	chains.
In 	 addition, 	 we	adhere	to	local	and	national	human	 rights	laws	and	regulations, 	 including 	  disclosure 	requirements 	under	the	  California 	Supply	Chain	Transparency 	  Act	and	the	U.K.	 Modern 	 Slavery 	 Act.Developing Innovative Products Boston	Scientific 	maintains 	a	steadfast 	 focus on delivering services and solutions to address the healthcare challenges that  matter	most	to	patients	and	customers.
We	foster	creativity 	and	collaboration 	so	 our	people	can	continually 	pursue	and  develop	life-changing 	innovations.
Our 	 teams	collaborate 	inside	and	outside	  the	c ompany 	 to 	 design 	 and 	 champion   solutions 	 that 	 will 	 make 	 patients’ 	  lives	better.
Approach Our	new	product	development 	teams	 follow	the	Product	Life	Cycle	Process	  methodology.
This 	global 	pr ocess 	int egrates	 business, 	 technical 	 and 	 quality-system 	 tasks	to	support	a	uniform	and	transparent 	 development 	approach 	company 	wide.
The	result	is	a	robust	capacity	for	driving	 breakthrough 	ideas	from	concept	through	 commercialization 	to	product	end-of-life.We	have	research 	and	development 	  (R&D)	sites	in	the	U.S.,	 Puerto 	 Rico,	  European 	Union,	 Costa 	 Rica,	 India 	 and 	  China.
Some 	 of 	 these 	 sites 	 also 	 serve 	  as	R&D	Centers	of	Excellence 	with	  specific	focus,	 expertise 	 and 	 capabilities 	 that	are	shared	across	our	global	  development 	network.
Pre-Clinical Sciences Boston	Scientific 	conducts 	extensive 	 pre-clinical 	research 	into	the	safety	and	 efficacy	of	our	medical	devices	before	 progressing 	to	human	clinical	trials.
Our 	 pre-clinical 	research 	and	science	policies	 set stringent standards that govern our  training	practices, 	 product 	 testing 	 and 	 regulatory 	compliance.Biocompatibility 	and	toxicology 	play	a	  pivotal	role	in	medical	device	development.
In	2019,	we 	 expanded 	 our 	 Global 	 Biocom- patibility 	and	Toxicology 	group	to	advance 	 our	product	development 	expertise, 	 streamline 	capabilities 	and	improve	our	 agility	in	responding 	to	regulatory 	changes.
This	expansion 	will	continue 	in	2020	  to	reflect	ongoing 	innovations 	in	the	  company’s 	product	development 	pipeline.
Ensuring 	that	we	meet	the	highest	  safety	standards 	in	all	new	products 	and	 therapies 	sometimes 	calls	for	animal	  testing	in	our	R&D	efforts.
When 	 we 	 use 	 new	materials 	in	medical	devices,	 the 	 U.S.	 Food	and	Drug	Administration 	(FDA)	may	 require	evidence 	of	pre-clinical 	animal	  testing	before	starting	human	clinical	trials.
Boston	Scientific 	is	committed 	to	the	 humane 	care	and	treatment 	of	laboratory 	 animals.
We 	 use 	 alternative 	 testing 	 when- ever	such	methods 	are	feasible,	 scientifically 	 valid	and	appropriate.
Our 	 pre-clinical 	 research 	personnel 	are	highly	trained	  professionals 	with	multiple	certifications, 	 and	our	facilities	meet	or	exceed	applicable 	  laws	and	regulatory 	requirements, 	 guide- lines	and	standards.
We 	 are 	 routinely 	 audited	by	internal	experts	and	relevant	 government 	agencies, 	 including 	 the 	 FDA,	 U.S.	Department 	 of 	 Agriculture 	 (USDA) 	 and	the	Association 	for	Assessment 	and	 Accreditation 	of	Laboratory 	Animal	Care	 International 	(AAALAC).Our	practices 	reflect	the	basic	tenet	of	the	International 	Bill	of	Human	Rights: “ All human beings ar e born free and equal in dignity and  rights.
They are endowed with reason and conscience and  should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” UN International Bill of Rights Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Clinical Trials Scientifically 	rigorous	clinical	trials	and	 the	data	they	generate 	are	essential 	to	 document 	the	safe	and	effective 	use	of	 our products.
An internal Clinical Data Task  Force	led	a	2019	effort	to	strengthen 	our	 advanced 	analytics 	capabilities 	by	adopting 	  unified	trial	data	definitions.
We 	 also 	  expanded 	the	information 	technology 	  infrastructure that supports all clinical   trials.
With 	 a 	 significant 	 investment 	 in 	 new	research 	tools,	 we 	 implemented 	 our 	 strategy	to	meet	and	exceed	European 	 Union	Medical	Device	Regulation 	(EU	MDR)	 standards.
We 	 also 	 made 	 operational 	  enhancements 	to	support	EU	General	  Data	Protection 	Regulation 	(GDPR)	  compliance 	and	International 	Organization 	 for	Standardization 	(ISO)	excellence.
Also	in	2019,	 we 	 piloted 	 an 	 initiative, 	 called 	 the	start-up	Center	of	Excellence 	(COE),	 to	identify	practices 	used	in	the	earliest	 stages	of	successful 	clinical	trials	and	apply	 them	seamlessly 	across	all	trials.
The 	 new 	 framework 	will	support	future	trial	start-ups 	 through	a	centralized 	COE	team	of	start-up	 experts	and	proven	best	practices.
We conducted 115 active trials  in 2019, enrolling nearly 5,000 patients globally.“  Mor e than 40 years of experience in developing medical devices has shown us that the   path to innovation is complex.
The collaboration between Mayo Clinic and Boston Scientific supports our shared goal of advancing patient-centered innovation.”   — Mike Mahoney, Boston Scientific Chairman and CEO   Accelerating Innovation Through Meaningful Collaboration  To solve the toughest healthcare   challenges, 	 we 	 rely 	 on 	 our 	 ability 	 to 	  iterate	quickly,	 collaborate 	 and 	 take 	  informed 	risks	while	ensuring 	that	  quality	and	patient	safety	are	our	  primary	focus.
For 	 nearly 	 a 	 decade,	  engineering 	and	clinical	teams	from	 Boston	Scientific 	and	the	Mayo	  Clinic	have	worked	side-by-side 	  to	discover	and	develop	new	  life-changing 	solutions.
In	2019,	the 	 Mayo 	 Clinic 	 and 	 Boston 	  Scientific 	announced 	a	new	joint	  innovation accelerator called Motion   Medical.
Located 	 in 	 Rochester, 	 Minnesota, 	 Motion Medical focuses on developing  minimally 	invasive	treatments 	for	  conditions 	that	impede	quality	and	  longevity 	of	life.
This 	 includes 	 early-stage 	 medical	technologies 	for	interventional 	 cardiology, 	 heath 	 rhythm 	 management, 	  endoscopy, 	 neuromodulation 	 and 	 urology.
Gianrico Farrugia, MD, president   and CEO of Mayo Clinic, and Mike  Mahoney, chairman and CEO, Boston  Scientific, at the Motion Medical ribbon  cutting ceremony.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  57Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Breakthrough Ideas  Innovation 	can	come	from	anyone	  and	anywhere 	in	the	company.
The 	  annual	Boston	Scientific 	ImagineIF   program 	takes	a	venture-style 	approach 	  to	funding	bold	ideas	from	our	  employees.
In 	 2019,	 the 	 company 	  funded	seven	new	projects	through	  this	program, 	 including 	 Artificial 	  Intelligence 	(AI)-driven 	algorithms 	to	  improve	diagnostic 	processes 	and	a	  machine-learning 	model	to	analyze	  manufacturing 	and	testing	patterns.
Since	2014,	 ImagineIF 	 has 	 resulted 	 in 	  52	funded	projects	and	more	than	20	  patent	filings,	 all 	 above 	 and 	 beyond 	  the	ongoing 	work	of	our	research 	and	 development 	teams	and	planned	  product pipeline projects.
Recognize Success  At	the	12th	annual	Boston	Scientific 	 Recognize Success event ,	we	celebrated 	 the	collective 	work	of	thousands 	of	our	 employees.
More 	 than 	 50 	 leaders 	 and 	  their	teams	were	honored 	for	their	roles	  in	improving 	quality,	 patient 	 care 	 and 	  value	for	the	business.
Develop Excellence  Every	year,	 our Recognize Development  Excellence 	program 	identifies 	and	rewards	 Boston	Scientific 	cross-functional 	teams	 who	work	together 	to	develop	meaningful 	 medical	innovations 	for	customers 	  and patients.
Idea Portal  We	invite	original	ideas	from	customers 	 and	innovators 	outside	of	the	company.
In	2019,	our 	 external 	Idea Portal received  more	than	80	submissions 	from	physicians 	 and	academic 	institutions 	worldwide.
Two 	 innovators 	were	selected 	to	enter	medical	 device	exploratory 	programs.
“ The C onnected Patient Challenge fosters   dialogue and strengthens relationships   in the digital health community that will   accelerate the pace of change.
The energy  of the exchanges will fuel our continued  commitment to enhance patient care —  that is the most satisfying outcome of all.”    — Jodi Euerle Eddy, Boston Scientific Senior Vice President and CIODigital Health  In	September 	2019,	 Boston 	 Scientific, 	 in 	 partnership 	 with 	 Google,	  launched 	the	fifth	Connected Patient Challenge.
This external   innovation 	competition 	focused	on	future	digital	health	solutions 	that	  can	manage 	chronic	health	conditions.
Inventors 	 and 	 entrepreneurs 	  uploaded 	their	proposals, 	 with 	 a 	 record 	 number 	 of 	 entrants 	 submitting 	  new	product	ideas.
The 	 Nutrimedy 	 telenutrition 	 platform 	 won 	 the 	  challenge.
BreathResearch 	 received 	 runner-up 	 honors 	 for 	 its 	 mobile 	  technology 	to	detect	the	early	signs	of	respiratory 	attacks.Innovation Initiatives  Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Digital Health Advances 	made	by	our	Digital	Health	 teams	allow	us	to	secure,	 connect 	 and 	 use 	 data	in	new	ways	to	benefit	patients	and	 customers 	through	predictive 	analytics 	  and tools for care coordination.
One   example 	of	this	work	is	the	AI	behind	  our HeartLogic™ Heart Failure Diagnostic.
The	first	and	only	diagnostic 	of	its	kind,	 HeartLogic 	can	predict	worsening 	heart	 failure	events	weeks	before	they	happen,	 giving	physicians 	critical	time	to	act.
We	also	made	new	progress 	in	pain	  management 	through	our	partnership 	  with	IBM	Research, 	 using 	 patient 	 data 	  to	develop	an	objective 	measure 	for	  pain	that	we	hope	will	lead	to	highly	  personalized 	therapies.
Our	digital	health	offerings 	also	include	  safe	and	secure	methodologies 	for	  smarter	management 	of	patient	data.
We	developed 	the	Boston	Scientific 	  MyLATITUDE™ 	app	so	patients	with	  subcutaneous 	implantable 	defibrillators 	 (S-ICD)	can	easily	monitor	their	heart	  data	on	personal 	mobile	devices.
We 	  have also equipped healthcare providers  with	tools	and	applications 	to	help	them	 optimize 	their	care	processes 	by	quickly	 and	securely	integrating 	their	data.
Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations “ This is the true pr omise   of digital health: a future   in which connected smart devices, the Internet of Things and predictive digital   diagnostics come together to drive better, faster  actions for providers and patients alike.
Stay tuned… the future is nearer than  you think.”    — David Feygin, Boston Scientific   Chief Digital Health Officer 2019 Innovation and Product Awards  Edison Awards: The	Boston	Scientific 	  LithoVue 	Empower™ 	Retrieval 	  Deployment 	Device	won	silver,	 and 	  the	AXIOS™	Stent	and	Electrocautery 	  Enhanced 	Delivery	System	earned	  bronze	for	Best	New	Products 	in	the  Medical Field 	category.
Shingo Prize: Our	Coyol,	 Costa 	 Rica  facility	received 	the	2019	Shingo	Prize	  for operational excellence and   demonstrating 	a	c ommitment 	t o 	  continuous 	improvement.
Top 100 Global Innovator: Boston   Scientific 	was	honored 	by	Derwent 	as	  a	Top	100	Global	Innovator 	for	the  third	consecutive 	year.
MDEA (Medical Design Excellence Awards):  Our	LithoVue 	Empower™ 	Retrieval 	  Deployment 	Device	won	silver	for	  Gastrointestinal 	and	Genitourinary 	  Devices;	 the 	 Eluvia™ 	 Drug-Eluting 	  Vascular 	Stent	earned	bronze	in	the	 Drug-Delivery 	and	Combination 	  Products 	category.Quality and Safety Innovative, 	 high-quality 	 and 	 safe 	 products 	 that	break	new	ground	can	make	all	the	 difference 	in	patient	outcomes.
We 	  continually 	strive	to	exceed	expectations 	 with	customer-centric, 	 quality 	 solutions 	 that	transform 	patient	lives.
Our	global	quality	and	safety	efforts	are	 supported 	by:     Quality	Systems	training	for	all	employees    A	Quality	master	plan	that	prioritizes 	 quality	improvement 	projects, 	 leading 	 to	higher	quality	products 	and	better	 patient	outcomes    Our	global	Quality	system	that	integrates 	 customer 	feedback 	and	regulatory 	  requirements 	into	our	processes    The	Boston	Scientific 	Best4	strategy	  (see	next	page)	for	delivering 	industry-   leading	performance Our	commitment 	to	quality	begins	  with	the	one-line	Quality Policy that   is	highly	visible	in	our	facilities: “ I impr ove the quality   of patient care and all   things Boston Scientific.” Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  59Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Best4 Strategy The	quality	materials 	we	use	are	vital	to	our	 manufacturing 	decisions 	as	we	develop	 safe	and	effective 	products.
Teams 	 across 	 the	company 	carefully	assess	component 	 and	device	materials 	and	consider 	a	range	 of	factors,	 from 	 efficiency 	 and 	 availability 	 to	worldwide 	medical	and	environmental 	 requirements 	and	regulations.
Strategic Quality Process (SQP) Our	manufacturing 	process	requirements 	 reflect	the	Boston	Scientific 	Corporation 	 Quality	Policy	and	our	SQP,	 which 	 evolves 	 year-over-year, 	 and 	 encompasses:Best4 underpins every Boston   Scientific process, including product development.
Our	teams	rely	on	a	global	design	controls	 process,	 risk 	 assessment 	 and 	 usability 	 engineering 	to	create	safe	and	effective 	 solutions 	from	new	technologies.
At 	 every 	 stage	of	development, 	 we 	 are 	 focused 	  on	the	unmet	needs	of	patients	who	will	 benefit	from	our	products.
For 	 example, 	 employees 	are	encouraged 	to	spend	  time	in	the	field,	 observing 	 procedures 	  and	talking	with	patients	and	  healthcare providers.
Operational 	strategy     How	we	execute	our	work     Our	pursuit	of	continuous 	improvement     How	we	measure 	performance      Recognition 	and	engagement Every	manufacturing 	site	across	the	  business 	develops 	its	own	customized 	  SQP	to	support	the	facility’s	focus	and	  performance 	objectives.
The 	 cohesion 	  of	quality	within	our	culture	is	reinforced 	  by	consistent, 	 direct 	 linkages 	 between 	  individual 	site	SQPs	and	our	overarching 	 corporate 	SQP.“  Our Best4  Strategy   ensures  patient  safety is  always  our top priority.”   — Roz Burke, Boston Scientific Senior Vice  President, Global Quality and Regulatory Best Culture:  Together, 	 we 	 sustain 	 a 	 culture 	 that 	 makes 	 the 	 Quality 	 Policy 	 real 	 for 	 every 	  employee.
We 	 reinforce 	 the 	 importance 	 of 	 everyone’s 	 role 	 in 	 improving 	 patient 	 lives,	  and	we	sustain	a	diverse,	 winning 	 quality 	 team 	 that 	 lives 	 our 	 core 	 values.
Best Agility: We	add	value	by	reducing 	complexity, 	 removing 	 obstacles 	 and 	 adapting 	 to 	 changing 	business 	needs.
This 	 means 	 having 	 intentional 	 simplicity 	 in 	 our 	 systems 	 as 	 well 	  as	lean	practices 	and	the	right	technology 	for	process	efficiency.
Best Performance: For	our	teams,	 best 	 performance 	 means 	 developing 	 and 	 making 	 the 	  best	products, 	 services 	 and 	 solutions 	 for 	 patients 	 and 	 customers.
Quality 	 by 	 Design 	 and 	 Continuous 	Improvement 	are	core	foundations 	of	this	work.
Best Compliance: We	follow	and	comply	with	global	laws	and	regulations 	with	one	global	 Quality	System.
This 	 work 	 includes 	 ongoing 	 risk 	 mitigation 	 and 	 an 	 effective 	 transition 	 to 	  the	EU	MDR.
Our	Quality	Policy	is	complemented 	by	  our Quality Mission ,	which	states:	 “ W e exceed expectations  with customer-centric   quality solutions that  transform patient lives.”   Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  60Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Our Latest Quality Initiatives We	take	on	targeted 	quality	and	  compliance 	projects	every	year	  with	a	focus	on	continuous 	  improvement.
Highlights 	 of 	 our 	  2019	accomplishments 	include:     Implementing 	a	global	usability, 	 risk 	 management 	and	design-controls 	  process	to	harmonize 	best	practices 	  for	product	design	and	performance     Completing 	work	to	prepare	our	  Quality	System	for	meeting 	new	EU	  MDR	requirements      Further supporting acquisition   integration 	activities 	with	the	launch	  of	an	online	Quality	and	Operations 	 Acquisition 	Integration 	Roadmap     Strengthening 	our	medical	device	  cybersecurity 	protocols 	in	accordance 	 with	FDA	guidance      Investing 	in	additional 	improvements 	  in	Post-Market 	Quality	Assurance 	that	 further	enhance 	our	Post-Market 	  Surveillance 	capabilitiesCultivating Quality in Our Culture with Everyone Makes an Impact Events Our annual Everyone Makes an Impact events take place at Boston Scientific sites   around the world.
These onsite employee gatherings bring our quality policy to life  through the stories and experiences of patients who have benefited from our devices.
Indira Quirós: In	Heredia,	 Costa 	 Rica,	 Indira 	 talked 	 with 	 our 	 team 	 about	how	she	suffered	from	Wolff-Parkinson-White 	syndrome,1   a rare congenital heart disorder involving an extra electrical   pathway 	that	results	in	abnormal 	heartbeat, 	 with 	 symptoms 	  including 	tachyarrhythmia 	that	could	result	in	sudden	death.
She	underwent 	a	procedure 	that	used	three	devices	made	by	  our	Heredia	team.
Indira’s 	 heart 	 surgeons 	 used 	 the 	 Dynamic 	 XT™ 	 and	VIKING™ 	catheters 	to	diagnose 	her	condition, 	 then 	 implanted 	  the	BLAZER™ 	II	catheter	to	treat	her	cardiac	ablation.
She 	 traveled	  from	Nic aragua 	t o 	me et 	the 	14 0 	employe es 	who 	work ed 	t ogether 	 on	the	devices	that	dramatically 	improved 	her	prognosis 	and	 quality	of	life.
Indira 	 has 	 resumed 	 her 	 regular 	 activities 	 and 	 is 	 enjoying 	a	healthy,	 active 	 life 	 with 	 her 	 two 	 children.
Indira posing with the 140 Boston Scientific employees who  worked on the devices used in her diagnosis and treatment.Meho Temim: After	being	diagnosed 	with	Sick	sinus	syndrome,2  a	group	of	heart	rhythm	problems 	in	which	the	heart’s	natural	 pacemaker 	does	not	work	properly, 	 Meho 	 was 	 implanted 	 with 	 a 	 Boston	Scientific 	Accolade™ 	MRI	EL	pacemaker.
F or	t his	d edicated 	 member 	of	our	Electrophysiology 	development 	te am	i n	A rden	H ills,	 Minnesota, 	 the 	 successful 	 treatment 	 hit 	 close 	 to 	 home.
“It’ s 	 a 	 nice 	 feeling	to	know	you	have	a	device	that	you	can	count	on,”	 he 	 told 	 his	colleagues 	at	our	2019	event	in	Minnesota.
“My 	 coworkers 	 and 	 I	built	my	pacemaker 	with	the	highest	quality	standards 	in	the	 world,	and 	 I’m 	 proud 	 of 	 that.”     Meho being interviewed at the Arden Hills, Minnesota Everyone  Makes an Impact event by David Thompson, Boston Scientific Vice  President, Clinical Solutions, Cardiac Rhythm Management.
1 "Wolff Parkinson White Syndrome." Rare Disease Database.
https://rarediseases.org/rare-disease/wolff-parkinson-white-syndrome/2 "Sick sinus syndrome." Mayo Clinic.
https://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/sick-sinus-syndrome/symptoms-cause/syc- Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Sustainable Supply Chain Our	manufacturing 	and	supply	chain	  teams	lead	the	company’s 	efforts	t o	p lan,	 source,	m anufacture 	 and 	 distribute 	 more 	 than	15,000	products 	with	the	potential 	  to	improve	or	save	lives.
In 	 this 	 work,	 we	collaborate 	with	leading	suppliers 	to	 provide	a	reliable	supply	of	high-quality 	 products 	to	customers 	and	patients	in	all	 regions	globally.
We 	 use 	 a 	 strategic 	 quality 	 process	to	prioritize, 	 execute 	 and 	 monitor 	 our	manufacturing 	and	supply	chain.To	maintain 	the	highest-quality 	component 	 supply,	we 	 take 	 a 	 rigorous 	 risk 	 manage - ment	approach 	as	we	select	supply	chain	 partners.
Our 	 sourcing 	 team 	 assesses 	  risk	to	ensure	that	long-term 	suppliers 	 share	our	quality	standards 	and	customer 	 focus	as	well	as	our	values.
The 	 logistics 	  experts	on	our	supply	chain	team	facilitate 	 planning across divisions and regions as  they	monitor	progress 	and	adapt	to	meet	 evolving 	customer 	and	patient	needs.
Setting Industry Standards Boston	Scientific 	collaborates 	with	trade	 associations 	and	regulatory 	bodies	around	 the	world	to	set	new	standards 	in	quality	 and	remain	informed 	and	agile	about	new	 and	changing 	regulatory 	requirements.
We	make	it	a	priority	to	help	influence 	 industry	and	regulatory 	approaches 	to	 quality	as	we	share	the	best	practices 	  behind	our	patient-focused 	systems.
FDA Digital Health: Through the FDA  Digital	Health	Precertification 	Program, 	 Boston	Scientific 	completed 	a	2019	  assessment 	that	confirmed 	the	high	 quality	of	our	Digital	Health	product	  development 	process.
As 	 a 	 result,	  we	now	have	access	to	program 	  benefits	such	as	expedited 	regulatory 	  approval 	pathways 	for	new	and	  innovative devices.
Industry Leadership: In	2019,	we 	  continued 	to	identify	and	prioritize 	  opportunities to expand the leadership  and	influence 	of	Boston	Scientific 	in	 priority	areas.
These 	 include 	 medical 	 device	user	fee	negotiations, 	 regulatory 	 submission 	initiatives 	such	as	the	FDA	 Safer	Technologies 	Program 	(STeP),	  and	collaborative 	efforts	such	as	the	 National 	Evaluation 	System	for	health	 Technology 	(NEST).
FDA Case for Quality: As a participant  in	the	FDA	Case	for	Quality	Voluntary 	 Improvement 	Program 	(VIP),	 five 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	manufacturing 	sites	have	  undergone 	quality	system	maturity 	  appraisals 	to	drive	continuous 	improve- ment	and	organizational 	excellence.
Significant 	benefits	of	the	program 	  include	expedited 	manufacturing 	  change	approvals 	and	a	streamlined 	  FDA inspection schedule.
Measuring and Monitoring Quality and   Compliance Effectiveness We	regularly 	conduct	internal	audits	  to	verify	that	our	Global	Quality	System	 conforms 	to	internal	and	external	require- ments	and	is	effectively 	implemented 	  and	maintained.
As 	 we 	 plan 	 and 	 execute 	 our	internal	audits,	 we 	 conduct 	 follow-up 	 activities, 	 including 	 re-auditing 	 prior 	  observations 	and	verifying 	actions	taken.
External	regulatory 	agencies 	also	review	 our	performance 	to	ensure	quality	and	 compliance, 	 with 	 the 	 following 	 results 	  in	2019:      External	regulatory 	inspections*	      Percent	external	regulatory 	  inspections 	resulting 	in	no	findings*	 79%      Average	findings	per	external	  regulatory 	Inspection*	 0 .
Average	findings	per	FDA	inspection	 * Includes Notified Body, Competent Authority, FDA Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  62Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Product Performance Boston	Scientific 	reviews	customer 	  feedback 	and	monitors 	their	experiences 	 with	our	devices.
This 	 information 	 provides 	 valuable 	inputs	for	our	Quality	system	  as	well	as	future	product	iterations 	and	 innovations.
We 	 follow 	 our 	 Corrective 	  and Preventative Action process to collect  and	analyze	data	that	can	help	identify	  root	causes	for	potential 	quality	and	  compliance 	issues.
Our 	 teams 	 are 	 then 	  able	to	address	potential 	problems 	and	 prevent	future	issues	or	recurrences.
We 	 initiate	field	actions	(product 	advisories, 	 product	advisory 	updates, 	 product 	  retrievals), 	 including 	 follow-up 	 and 	  closure,	to 	 ensure 	 that 	 regulatory 	 or 	  field	safety	issues	are	resolved 	quickly	  and	effectively.
In 2019, Boston Scientific  had zero Class I recalls and zero open FDA warning letters.Responsible Marketing Our	company 	has	a	firm	commitment 	  to	ethical	and	responsible 	marketing 	  and	promotion 	throughout 	the	business.
Our Code of Conduct and all other related   employee 	policies	emphasize 	the	impor- tance	of	fair	and	honest	communications 	 with	patients	and	customers.
In 2019, we spent nearly  $1 million on company-wide programs that provided  almost 13,000 hours of  training for customer-facing employees on a range of integrity topics.
The	curriculum 	for	these	sessions 	included 	 identifying 	and	avoiding 	conflicts	of	  interest,	 respecting 	 intellectual 	  property, 	 fair 	 and 	 honest 	 marketing 	  practices and appropriate interactions   with	physicians 	and	government 	officials.
Customer Relationship Management Our	achievements 	are	rooted	in	a	deep	 commitment 	to	helping	healthcare 	  providers 	meet	patient	needs.
The 	  Boston	Scientific 	Customer 	Relationship 	 Management 	(CRM)	team	takes	the	lead	  in	our	work	to	monitor	and	learn	from	  customer 	satisfaction 	feedback.
Metrics 	 from	our	customer 	surveys	provide	crucial	  information 	on	what	we	are	doing	well	  and	where	we	need	to	make	improvements 	  to	better	serve	our	customers.
Our 	 industry-   leading	CRM	practices 	in	the	United	States	 are	now	expanding 	to	other	regions	across	 the	globe.In	March	2019,	 the 	 Boston 	 Scientific 	  Customer 	Service	organization 	was	  honored 	with	the	Customer 	Relationship 	 Management 	Institute	LLC	(CRMI)	  NorthFace 	ScoreBoard 	Award	(NFSB)	  for	achieving 	excellence 	in	customer 	  service	in	the	“Over all”	 and 	“Cust omer 	 Service”	 categories.
BostonScientific2019PerformanceReport 63FeaturePatient HighlightAMessageto OurStockholdersFinancial HighlightsOurMissionand CoreValuesBostonScientific ataGlanceBostonScientific bytheNumbersCorporateSocial ResponsibilityOurPatients OurPeople OurPlanet OurPractices Non-GAAP Reconciliations PackagingandLabeling PackagingpracticesatBostonScientific reflectourobligationtoprotectmedical devicesduringsterilization,distribution, storageanduse.Wecollaboratewith ourcustomersandconductusability assessmentstoensurewearemeeting theirneedsandrequirements.
Asthebusinessmakesadvanceswith sustainability,aglobalSustainability PackagingandLabelingSteering CommitteeconferswiththeBoston ScientificCSRCounciltodevelopour packagingstrategyandgoals.Our packagingandsupplychainpractices includeoptimizingdesign,reducing wasteandlimitingemissionsfrom shipping.Inaddition,ourpackaging teamsusecasestudiestocommunicate keypackagingobjectivesandfurther engageourpeopleastheydocument andsharesuccessfulpractices.In 2019,weexpandedthecompany’s sustainabilitycasestudyportfolioby morethan50percentfrom2018.Wecontinuallyassessourlabeling processesfornewwaystomeet customerneedswhilealsoreducingour environmentalfootprint.Inparallelwith afocusonsustainability,Boston Scientifichascontrolsinplacetoverify thatourproductlabelingmeetsglobal labelingregulationsandcomprehensive internalqualitystandards.
In2019,BostonScientificwasproudto jointheHealthcarePlasticsRecycling Council(HPRC),aconsortiumofindustry leadersdedicatedtoboostingplastics recyclingeffortsinclinicalsettings.Asa memberoftheHPRC,BostonScientific sharesinnovationsandcollaborateswith peercompaniestosupportincreased useofrecycledmaterial,removebarriers towastereductionandeducatethe marketaboutsustainability.
2019SnashotM Approximately140tonsofpackaging wastedivertedfromlandfills 3,560palletshipmentsavoided 14,500acresofforestprojectedtobe savedfromCO2emissions 750productsrepurposedduring development“Wearedelightedtohave BostonScientificjoinour efforts.Asanindustry leader,BostonScientific hasapassionforsolving thechallengesthatmatter most.Thecompanyis motivatedbyadeepcaring forhumanlifeandastrong senseofcorporateand environmental responsibility.” — Peylina Chu, Director of the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC)eaMrlRadurcEvMRtnanc wnvRltnmrnMadSMrwalchoRs OneofthelargestBostonScientific distributioncentersachievedsignificant winsinmaterialreductionandenviron- mentalstewardshipin2019.Theteam inQuincy,Massachusettsconducted areviewofinternalprocessesand identifiedavoidableproductwaste associatedwithcustomer-applied labels.Byimplementingmorespecific instructionsandvisualaids,thefacility prevented11.18tonsofpackaging wastefromreachinglandfills.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  64Supporting Small Business   and Supplier Diversity Meeting	the	needs	of	more	than	30	million	 patients	each	year	requires	a	wide	variety	 of perspectives.
Diverse vendors and   suppliers 	bring	new	and	innovative 	ideas	 to	our	business.
These 	 professionals 	 allow 	 us	to	approach 	challenges 	from	different 	 angles,	collaborate 	 more 	 constructively 	 and 	 better	serve	customers 	and	their	patients.
This	focus	on	diversity	and	inclusion 	  extends	throughout 	our	supply	chain.
In	2019,	we 	 worked 	 with 	 more 	 than 	 4,600 	 diverse	suppliers 	in	the	United	States,	 including 	businesses 	that	are:     Minority-owned     Women-owned     Small	or	disadvantaged 	     Veteran-owned     Service-disabled, 	 veteran-owned     LGBTQ-owned     Disability-ownedIn 2019, we spent $755   million with diverse  suppliers, an 18% increase from 2018.
In	2020,	 we 	 are 	 aiming 	 to 	 increase 	 this 	 spend	by	7	percent.
We 	 also 	 conducted 	 more	than	200	capability 	assessments 	  with	diverse	vendors.Our Responsible Supplier Standards Quality	is	the	most	important 	aspect	of	 our	supplier	relationships.
Our 	 more 	 than 	 27,000	suppliers 	throughout 	the	world	 meet	a	robust	set	of	standards.
The 	  company 	actively	seeks	supply	chain	  partners 	who	will	consistently 	deliver	  industry-leading 	quality,	 reliability 	 and 	 value.
All	direct	materials 	suppliers 	for	Boston	 Scientific 	are	required 	to	comply	with	  strict	quality	requirements.
We 	 agree 	 to 	 partnerships 	only	with	companies 	that	 share	our	commitment 	to	ethical	conduct	 and	that	are	in	full	compliance 	with	all	 applicable 	laws	and	regulations.
To 	 identify 	 these	businesses, 	 we 	 use 	 a 	 standardized 	 supplier	performance 	assessment 	tool	  with	criteria	ranging	from	CSR	practices 	  to	strategic 	business 	processes.
Our 	  mandatory 	evaluation 	protocol	allows	  us	to	build	relationships 	with	responsible 	 and	high-performing 	suppliers 	that	  make	significant 	contributions 	to	our	work.“ I w as born and raised in  South Africa, and the  importance of diversity has   always been apparent to me in every facet of my life.
Watching the devastating effects of discrimination has left me with a passion to obliterate this injustice in  any way within my power  and influence.
Every person should be aware of the direct  impact they can make by choosing to support small and  diverse vendors in their personal and professional lives.”   — Saken Khokhar, Manager, Boston Scientific Supplier Diversity From	sourcing 	manufacturing 	materials 	  to	managing 	the	distribution 	of	Boston	  Scientific 	products 	to	more	than	120	  countries, 	 these 	 partners 	 work 	 with 	 us 	  to ensure that our products are in the   right	place	at	the	right	time	to	improve	 patient lives.
We	use	an	inclusive 	procurement 	process	 that	involves	close	collaboration 	with	our	 Diversity 	and	Inclusion 	team,	 input 	 from 	 our	CSR	Council	and	input	from	employee 	 resource groups.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  65This	Performance 	Report	contains 	forward-looking 	statements 	within	the	meaning 	of	the	federal	securities 	laws.
See 	 the 	 discussion 	 under 	“Saf e 	 Harbor 	 for 	 Forward-Looking 	 Statements” 	  in the Annual	Report	on	Form	10-K	for	the	year	ended	December 	31,	 2019,	 for 	 matters 	 to 	 be 	 considered 	 in 	 this 	 regard.
In 	 addition, 	 please 	 see 	 our 	 Annual 	 Report 	 on 	 Form 	 10-K 	 for 	 a 	  description 	of	our	Non-GAAP 	adjustments 	and	the	reasons	for	excluding 	each	item.
Year Ended December 31, Total BSC Revenue Growth  2019  20 18  20 17  20 16  20 15  5- Year Average Percentage change in net sales, as reported  9 .3 %  8 .6 %  7 .9 %  12 %  1 %  8 % Less:	Impact 	 of 	 foreign 	 currency 	 fluctuations	 (1.8)%	 0.6 	 %	 0.1 	 %	 —%	 (7)%	 (1)% Percentage change in net sales, operational  11.
1 %  8 .0 %  7 .8 %  12 %  8 %  9 % Less:	Impact 	 of 	 certain 	 acquisitions 	 and 	 divestitures	 3.8 	 %	 0.8 	 %	 1.2 	 %	 2 	 %	 3 	 %	 2 	 % Percentage change in net sales, organic  7 .3 %  7 .2 %  6 .6 %  10 %  5 %  7 %  Year Ended December 31, 2019           Rhythm   Percentage Change in Net Sales of Reportable Segments  MedSur g  and N euro  Car diovascular Percentage change in net sales, reported 	 10.0 	 %	 3.3 	 %	 11.4 	 % Less:	Impact 	 of 	 foreign 	 currency 	 fluctuations	 (1.5)%	 (1.6)%	 (2.1)% Percentage change in net sales, operational 	 11.5 	 %	 4.9 	 %	 13.5 	 % Less:	Impact 	 of 	 certain 	 acquisitions 	 and 	 divestitures	 2.7 	 %	 1.6 	 %	 4.2 	 % Percentage change in net sales, organic 	 8.8 	 %	 3.3 	 %	 9.3 	 %  Year Ended December 31,        Operating Margin   2019  2018  20 17  20 16  20 Operating margin, reported 	 	 14.1 	 %	 15.3 	 %	 14.2 	 %	 5.3 	 %	 (3.8)% 	Less:	Non-GAAP 	 adjustments	 	 (12.0)%	 (10.2)%	 (10.8)%	 (18.8)%	 (26.1)% Operating margin, adjusted 	 	 26.1 	 %	 25.5 	 %	 25.0 	 %	 24.1 	 %	 22.3 	 % Basis	Point	Improvement 	from	2018	 	 Basis	Point	Improvement 	from	2015	 	 380Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Percentages are calculated using unrounded numbers and may not calculate precisely due to rounding.
Amounts may not add due to rounding.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  66 Year Ended December 31, 2019          Less: Impact       Less: Im pact of   of R ecent      R eported  F oreign Currency   Operational  A cquisitions/  Or ganic   Percentage Change in Net Sales of Reportable Segments   Basis  Fluctuations   Basis  Div estitures  Basis Endoscopy	 	 7.5 	 %	 (1.7)%	 9.2%	 0.0%	 9.2% Urology	and	Pelvic	Health	 	 13 .4 	 %	 (1.3)%	 14.7%	 6.3%	 8.4% MedSurg   10 .0 %  (1.5)%  11.5%  2.
7%  8 .8% Cardiac	Rhythm	Management	 	 (0 .6)%	 (1.8)%	 1.2%	 0.0%	 1.2% Electrophysiology	 	 5.5 	 %	 (2.0)%	 7.5%	 0.0%	 7.5% Neuromodulation	 	 12.0 	 %	 (1.1)%	 13.1%	 6.3%	 6.8% Rhythm and Neuro   3 .3 %  (1.
6)%  4.
9%  1.
6%  3 .3% Interventional 	Cardiology	 	 8 .7 	 %	 (2.3)%	 11.0%	 1.0%	 10.0% Peripheral 	Interventions	 	 17 .3 	 %	 (1.8)%	 19.1%	 11.3%	 7.8% Cardiovascular   11.4 %  (2.
1)%  13 .5%  4.2%  9 .3%  Year Ended December 31, 2019          Less: Impact of         R eported  F oreign Currency  Oper ational   Percentage Change in Net Sales by Region     Basis  Fluctuations   Basis U.S.	 	 	 	 10.1%	 — 	%	 10 .1% EMEA	(Europe,	 Middle 	 East 	 and 	 Africa) 	 	 	 	 	 4.0%	 (5.4)%	 9.4% APAC	(Asia-Pacific) 		 	 	 	 9 .9%	 (2.4)%	 12.3% LACA	(Latin	America	and	Canada)	 	 	 	 3 .3%	 (4.0)%	 7.3% Medical Devices5    8 .5%  (1.
7)%  10 .2% Specialty Pharmaceuticals8     n/a   n/a  n/a  Net Sales     9 .3%  (1.
8)%  11.
1% Emerging 	Markets7	 	 	 	 14.1%	 (5.4)%	 19.5% 5 We have three reportable segments comprised of Medical Surgical (MedSurg), Rhythm and Neuro, and Cardiovascular, which represent an aggregation of our operating segments that generate revenues from the sale of medical devices (Medical Devices).
We have included BTG’s Interventional Medicine business in our Peripheral Interventions   operating segment’s 2019 revenues from the date of acquisition.
7 We define Emerging Markets as the 20 countries that we believe have strong growth potential based on their economic conditions, healthcare sectors and our global capabilities.
Periodically, we assess our list of Emerging Markets; effective January 1, 2019, we updated our list of Emerg - ing Market countries.
We have revised prior year amounts to the current year’s presentation.
The revision had an immaterial impact on prior year Emerging Markets sales.
8 As part of our acquisition of BTG, we acquired a specialty pharmaceuticals business (Specialty Pharmaceuticals).
Subsequent to acquisition, Specialty Pharmaceuticals is   now a stand-alone operating segment presented alongside our Medical Device reportable segments.Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Percentages are calculated using unrounded numbers and may not calculate precisely due to rounding.
Amounts may not add due to rounding.
Bost on Scientific 2019 Performance Report  67 Year Ended December 31, Earnings Per Share  2019  2018  20 17  20 16  20 15  20 GAAP net income (loss) per share  $  3.33  $   1.19  $0 .08  $0 .25  $(0 .18)  $(0 .09) Amortization 	expense	 0 .44	 0.37	 0.35	 0.35	 0.33a	 0.29b Intangible 	asset	impairment 	charges	 0 .07	 0.02	 —	 0.01	 0.01a	 0.12b Acquisition/divestiture-related 	net	charges	(credits)	 0 .48	 —	 0.01	 0.09	 0.17a	 (0.03)b Restructuring 	and	restructuring-related 	net	charges	 0 .05	 0.05	 0.05	 0.04	 0.05a	 0.07b Litigation-related 	net	charges	(credits)	 0 .05	 0.06	 0.12	 0.37	 0.52a	 0.49b Investment 	impairment 	charges	 —	 —	 0 .03	 —	 —	 — EU	MDR	implementation 	charges	 —	 —	 —	 —	 —	 — Debt	extinguishment 	net	charges	(credits)	 0 .05	 —	 —	 —	 0.02a — Deferred 	tax	expenses 	(benefits)	 (2.
91)	 —	 —	 —	 —	 — Discrete	tax	items	 0 .01	 (0.23)	 0.62	 —	 (0.01)a	 (0.01)b Pension	termination 	charges	 —	 —	 —	 —	 0 .02a — Adjusted net income (loss) per share  $  1.58  $   1.47  $ 1.26  $  1.11  $ 0.93  $ 0.Less:	Impact 	 of 	 2018 	 net 	 tax 	 benefit3	 —	 0.07	 —	 Adjusted net income (loss) per share, excluding 2018 net tax benefit  $   1.58  $   1.40  $ 1.Adjusted EPS growth from prior year  8%  17%  13%  20%  11%  15% Adjusted EPS growth from prior year, excluding 2018 net tax benefit  13%  11%   5-Year Average Adjusted EPS growth  14% Adjusted Free Cash Flow  (in millions)  20 19   20 Operating cash flow, reported  $ 1,836   $     Less:	Purchases 	 of 	 property, 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 	 461 		 	 Add:	Proceeds 	 on 	 disposals 	 of 	 property, 	 plant 	 and 	 equipment	 7	 Free Cash Flow  1,382  Plus:	Restructuring 	 and 	 restructuring-related 	 payments	 66	 Plus:	Acquisition-related 	 payments	 266	 Plus:	EU	 medical 	 device 	 regulation 	 payments	 4	 — Plus:	Special 	 Tax 	 Payments 	 (Refunds/Credits)	 	 (42) 	 	 977 			 Plus:	Litigation-related 	 Settlements	 	 330	 791 		 Adjusted free cash flow  $2, 007  $ 2,YoY Growth   (3)%  Feature Patient  HighlightA Message to  Our StockholdersFinancial  HighlightsOur Mission  and Core ValuesBoston Scientific  at a GlanceBoston Scientific by the NumbersCorporate Social ResponsibilityOur Patients Our People Our Planet Our Practices Non-GAAP Reconciliations Percentages are calculated using unrounded numbers and may not calculate precisely due to rounding.
Amounts may not add due to rounding.a Assumes dilution of 21.5 million shares for the year ended December 31, 2015.
b Assumes dilution of 23.7 million shares for the  year ended December 31, 2014.
3 Full year 2018 adjusted earnings per share was $1.47, which includes a $0.07 net tax benefit for  the year.
Excluding this net tax benefit of $0.07, our 2018 adjusted earnings per share grew 11 percent.
2019 adjusted EPS growth  including the aforementioned 2018 net tax benefit is 8 percent and normalized for the 2018 net tax benefit is 13 percent.
Full year  2018 net tax benefit of $0.07 includes our second quarter $0.06 benefit from settling the IRS Stipulation of Settled Issues for the 2001 through 2010 tax years, offset by a fourth quarter $0.05 charge for our tax reinvestment strategy.
In addition, the net benefit  includes a $0.06 benefit in the fourth quarter for the settlement with the IRS of our 2011 through 2013 tax years.Boston	Scientific 	Corporation 300	Boston	Scientific 	Way Marlborough, 	 MA 	 01752-bostonscientific.com© 2020 Boston Scientific Corporation or its affiliates.
All rights reserved.
PR2019