 
Achieving more 
2022 IMPACT SUMMARY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
-  
 
  
 
 
 ’  
’
’
’ ’
 
 
 
 
 ’1 
INTRODUCTION
Living our mission and 
embracing responsibility 
We are living through historic economic, societal, 
 and geopolitical change. As I write this, inflation is at a 40-year high, supply chains are stretched, and the war in Ukraine is ongoing. At the same time, we are entering a technological era with the potential to power awesome advancements across our economy and society. This places us at a historic intersection of opportunity and responsibility to the world around us. Our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more has never been more urgent or more necessary. Our actions must be aligned with addressing the world ’s 
problems, not creating new ones. At our core, we need to deliver innovation that helps drive broad economic growth. As a company, we will do well when the world around us does well. That’s why we remain steadfast in our commitments to: 
Support inclusive economic growth 5 
Protect fundamental rights 9 
Create a sustainable future 15 
Earn trust 19 
As we look back on our progress this year, we shou ld all be proud. But it’s easy to talk about what 
we’re doing well. As we look ahead, we’ll continue to reflect on where the world needs us to do better. 
I truly believe if we continue to live our mission, embr ace our responsibility, and grasp the opportunity 
technology offers the world, there is no limit to what we can achieve together. 
Satya Nadella 
Chairman and CEO 
Read Satya’s Annual Shareholder Letter Moving from pledges 
to progress 
As existing challenges persist and new ones 
emerge, we must stay grounded in our mission and our commitments while responding to shifting needs and expectations. 
Disruptive events like wars, pandemics, and recessions have a w ay of centering societal issues that were 
sidelined in times of peace and prosperity. These  complex challenges require thoughtful, deliberate, multistakeholder solutions. 
That’s why we activate resources from across our busin ess and our ecosystem—as we’re doing in our 
response to the war in Ukraine—and work with our employees, partners, and customers to maximize positive impact. 
The past few years have revealed another shift—incre asingly, broadband internet and accessible 
technology must be considered fundamental rights. Without them, people lack access to education, healthcare, jobs, and essential services—and risk being left behind in today’s digital world.  
We remain committed to our mission to deliver technology that empowers others. I’m proud of our 
ongoing impact at the intersection of technology and society—much of which is highlighted in this summary. 
But our work is not finished, and the urgency of today’s challenges demands that we redouble our efforts to move from pledges to progress. That means requiring careful measurement and using the power of data to achieve the level of accountability that we, our shareholders, and our customers and partners expect and deserve. 
As we do so, we’ll continue to share our learnings transparently—prioritizing progress over perfection—so we can keep improving and empower others to do the same. 
 
Brad Smith 
Vice Chair and President 
Visit our Reports Hub  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 2 
HOW WE WORK
 Partnering for 
greater impact 
The challenges facing the world 
are complex, and no one company, industry, or country can solve them alone. That’s why we work across sectors and borders to foster collective action and amplify impact, driving progress faster and farther than we could on our own. 
This report summarizes our impact for the reporting 
period July 1, 2021 – June 30, 2022, except for our environmental sustainability data, which—due to required timelines to audit and assure sustainability data after the close of each fiscal year—covers the previous fiscal year. Empower 
our employees 
Our more than 220,000 employees are the 
driving force behind our mission. We strive to create an inclusive culture where each of them can thrive. 
In their first six months, employees complete diversity 
and inclusion (“D&I”) courses on allyship, covering, privilege, and unconscious bias in the workplace. Additional personalized learning experiences enable them to take ownership of their ongoing D&I learning journey. 
More than 29,000 employees gave $255 million (with company match) to over 32,000 nonprofits in 88 countries around the world. This represents a 19% increase over the previous year. 
Microsoft employees volunteered over 720,000 hours to causes they care about, including more than 2,500 hours of 
free legal aid . Equip 
changemakers 
Nonprofits, entrepreneurs, and humanitarian 
organizations address our world’s most pressing challenges. We make technology, industry-specific solutions, and support affordable, so they can achieve more. 
Provided $3.2 billion in donated and discounted 
technology  (up 29% from last year) to 302,000 nonprofits 
that deliver critical services to over 1.2 billion people 
around the world. 
Over the next five years, we will double the number of nonprofits we reach with technology discounts and grants to help amplify their impact. 
Through our Microsoft Community Training  platform, 
empowered organizations to deliver job, safety, and livelihood training to their communities, resulting in 11.5 million registered learners and four million completed courses. 
Helped 581 entrepreneurs in more than 60 countries make a positive impact on issues like climate change, inequality, and access to education.  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
— 
 3 
HO W WE W O RK 
Activate 
our ecosystem 
With more than 400,000 partner organizations 
employing over 22 million people, thousands of suppliers, and customers of every size, in every industry, and in every part of the world, we have an enormous opportunity and responsibility to effect change through our ecosystem. 
Collaborated with 52 of our largest global customers 
to advance shared social impact goals such as increasing access to skills for jobs and using AI for good. 
Spent more than $7 billion with US diverse-owned 
bu
sinesses as part of our Supplier Diversity Program , 
a 17
% increase from last year. 
Continued to work with our supplier network to uphold ou
r commitments to accessibility, human rights, worker 
health and safety, and the environment through our supplier code of conduct , training, and capacity building. Engage 
local communities 
Change happens locally. We work closely 
with communities to understand their unique challenges and assets so we can best support them. 
Invested $7 million with local NGOs in 21  communities  
and 13 countries that have Microsoft datacenters to 
en
able student training and scholarships, technical 
support, volunteerism, and environmental projects. 
Helped catalyze more than $70 million in additional 
fu
nding from other organizations and upskilled more 
than 15,000 job seekers across eight US regions through Microsoft TechSpark , a program that works to ensure 
ev 
eryone can benefit from the digital economy. 
Allocated over $584 million of our $750 million co
mmitment since launching our affordable housing 
in
itiative , supporting the creation or preservation 
of o
ver 9,200 housing units in Washington state. Enable 
systemic change 
We work to enable lasting, systemic change, 
including by advocating for public policies 
that move us toward a more inclusive, eq
uitable, sustainable, and trusted future. 
Protected personal data and privacy, including through 
the Trans-Atlantic Data Privacy Framework and our EU Data Boundary initiative , as well as through Trusted 
Cl 
oud Principles, a new initiative to safeguard the interests 
of organizations and the basic rights of individuals using cloud services. 
Advocated for carbon reduction, including serving as 
a fo
unding signatory of the Carbon Call to standardize 
carbon measurement, accounting, and reporting — 
es
sential components to reach a net zero future. 
Championed the adoption of global responsible AI s
tandards, including supporting regulations for  
ethical facial recognition in Canada and Australia.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
ACTING IN TIMES OF CRISIS
Our response to the war in Ukraine 
As we pursue our core commitments, we 
must also be responsive to urgent needs such as the war in Ukraine. To rapidly provide resources where they’re needed most, we coordinate local and global action across our employees, our company, and our ecosystem. 
As of July 2022, we committed $257 million in financial and technological assistance to the global response to the war in Ukraine, including support for governments, businesses, nonprofits, and humanitarian organizations. 
We’ve helped defend key infrastructure—assisting with the detection and disruption of cyberattacks and cyber influence operations, as well as evacuating data to the cloud—and we’ve supported people, communities, and organizations on the ground.   Defending key infrastructure  
Our security teams continue working closely with 
Ukrainian government officials and cybersecurity staff at public and private organizations to identify and remediate threats against Ukrainian networks. 
We established a secure line of communication with cyber officials in Ukraine so we could act rapidly to help government agencies and organizations defend against malware attacks. 
Between January and July 2022, we delivered more than 120 intelligence tips about threat activity to Ukraine-based entities. 
Beginning in February, the Microsoft Start platform (including 
MSN.com ) stopped 
displaying content from Russian state-sponsored news outlets RT and Sputnik. We removed RT news apps from our Windows app store and de-ranked both sources’ search results on Bing. We’ve banned advertisements from RT and Sputnik across our ad network and will not place any ads on these sites. Supporting people, communities, and organizations  
We completed 173 emergency support missions that provided over 23,000 person-hours of technical support and solution development to governments, nonprofits, and businesses supporting Ukraine. 
Xbox partnered with the gaming community to raise millions of dollars and donated millions in product to retailer Humble Bundle’s, “Stand with Ukraine” campaign. 
LinkedIn provided a $2 million Refugee Relief 
Fund  and $1 million in LinkedIn ad grants to 
nonprofits that are helping connect displaced job seekers with resources and training to find jobs. In partnership with organizations like the Clooney Foundation, we’re supporting the International 
Criminal Court to deliver justice for war crimes in Ukraine by using Azure Cognitive Services to accelerate the analysis of digital evidence. 
Skype provided over 43 million minutes of free calling into and out of Ukraine to help families and loved ones reconnect. 
Dive deeper in our report, ‘Defending 
Ukraine: Early lessons from the cyber war’ 
Learn more about how we provide vital support for disaster response 
Photo courtesy of Polish Humanitarian Action 5 perpeper
Support inclusive 
economic growth  
Microsoft succeeds only when we help the world 
around us succeed. That’s why we believe economic growth should be inclusive—for every person, organization, community, and country. This starts with increasing access to digital skills and extends to closing the data divide and supporting public health. 
Learn more about how we support inclusive growth 
perpeper
Microsoft succeeds only when we help the world around us succeed. That’s why we believe economic growth should be inclusive—for every person, organization, community, and country. This starts with increasing access to digital skills and extends to closing the data divide and supporting public health.Support inclusive 
economic growth
5
Learn more about how we support inclusive growth
6 6 
  sGrow access to skills for jobs 
OUR COMMITMENTS OUR IMPACT 
Help 25 million people worldwide gain  
skills to navigate an increasingly digital world by December 2021.
 
 
 
 
  
 
Achieved by target date This year, over 23 million people in 249 countries 
and territories engaged with digital skills content through our global skills initiative, bringing the total to 66.2 million learners engaged since the program launched in 2020. 
Help train and certify 10 million people from underserved communities with in-demand digital skills for jobs and livelihood opportunities in the digital economy by 2025.
 
Commitment in progress Trained 4.6 million people with in-demand digital skills and connected them to opportunities in the digital economy through internships, apprenticeships, jobs, and more. 
Enable five million learners to access computer science skills in our Fiscal Year 2022 by building the capacity of high schools to offer computer science courses and by supporting other organizations in the computer science ecosystem.
 
 Achieved by target date With nonprofits like Code.org , CSTA, 
an
d CSforAll, provided more than six 
million people with access to computer science education. 
1,600 tech volunteers helped teach 
65
0 computer science classes in 500 high 
schools in the US, British Columbia, Canada, and Juarez, Mexico. 47% of students served identified as belonging to a racial or ethnic group historically excluded from computer science careers. OUR COMMITMENTS 
Help skill and recruit 250,000 people—especially from underrepresented groups—into the US cybersecurity workforce by 2025, and help an additional 24 countries with substantial cybersecurity workforce shortages to increase the number and diversity of candidates.
 
Commitment in progress OUR IMPACT
Made 26 grants across 24 countries that will co 
llectively train more than 24,000 individuals in 
cybersecurity and place at least 4,700 individuals into cybersecurity jobs. 
Since October 2021, we’ve begun collaborations 
with 1
81 US community colleges across 44 states 
to advance cybersecurity skilling. 
4.6M 
people trained  
on in-demand 
digital skills and 
connected to 
opportunities in the 
digital economy  7 
Protect public health 
OUR COMMITMENTS OUR IMPACT
Empower organizations with AI and data 
science to help them improve the health of people and communities worldwide through our five-year, $60 million investment in AI for Health, launched in 2020.
 
 Commitment in progress Partnered with research institutions to create novel data and AI-driven solutions for public health challenges such as sudden infant  death syndrome, childhood blindness,  cancer, and leprosy. 
Continue to support individuals, organizations, an
d communities as they respond to and 
recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. From th e early days of the pandemic 
through June 2022, more than $414 million 
has been committed in money, technology, 
and other resources to support continued COVID-19 response efforts, including research collaborations and COVID data dashboards to help inform policy and decision making. 
$414M  
committed in money, 
technology, and other 
resources to support 
continued COVID-19 
response efforts Close the data divide 
OUR COMMITMENTS
Increase access to data, a key tool for addressing societal and business challenges, by establishing 20 new data collaborations with nonprofits, universities, companies,  and governments by 2022. 
 
 Achieved by target date OUR IMPACT
Since April 2020, helped launch 23 data collaborations with nonprofits, universities, companies, and governments to promote equitable access to data in the areas of sustainability, health, and equity and inclusion. 
23 data 
collaborations  
with nonprofits, 
universities, companies, 
and governments  8 8 
STORIES OF IMPACT
Empowering youth from underserved 
communities in South Africa 
More than 66% of South Africa’s unemployed 
are young people. Launched in partnership with Nedbank and nonprofit partner Afrika Tikkun, the DigiSkills e-learning platform aims to help young people onto a digital career path. By the end of 2021, 1,000 students completed the training, with over 400 finding career opportunities. Another 4,000 are expected to complete the training in 2022. “The fact that we take someone from no prospects to having a sustainable income in under two months is remarkable,” said Nedbank’s Ramotse Phalatse. 
Read more about our DigiSkills partnership
“I enjoy waking up in the morning  
and having a purpose in life. This opportunity 
has allowed me to become self-sustainable  
and to improve my family’s living standards. 
I am now able to ensure our monthly bills are 
paid and we are all comfortable. It feels good 
to be able to provide for your family.”  
David Ngomane, 26, 
Developer at MLab WHAT WE’RE LEARNING 
We have learned that skills alone aren’t  enough. We need to help people better prepare
 
for and connect to jobs. So, we’ve refined our focus to help people build skills for jobs, including offering the right skills and credentials for in-demand jobs, supporting wrap-around services like mentorship, and fostering connections to jobs and networks. 
Equity of access and participation in computer  
science education is vital. We’re expanding  
our focus to better address this, both through  
our TEALS program  and by providing grant  
support to build capacity and scale in the  
broader ecosystem.
There is a severe shortage of qualified instructors to teach cybersecurity. In addition 
to supporting educational institutions, there is an opportunity to train industry professionals to help build a more inclusive pipeline of qualified cybersecurity professionals. 
Open data is important for impact, but data doesn’t always need to be fully “open” to be useful. 
Even if data can’t be made public due to privacy or commercial sensitivities, it can often be made more accessible through trusted data-sharing scenarios. We must strive to look at how we can be “more open” with data and less siloed. 
For more inclusive economic growth reports, 
visit our Reports Hub 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 9 
Protect 
fundamental rights 
We unequivocally support the fundamental rights 
of people, from defending democracy, to protecting human rights, to addressing racial injustice and inequity. And, as education, healthcare, and other critical services become increasingly dependent on technology, access to broadband and accessible technology are also fundamental to a more equitable future. 
Learn more about how we protect fundamental rights 
Protect 
fundamental rights
Learn more about how we protect fundamental rights
We unequivocally support the fundamental rights 
of people, from defending democracy, to protecting human rights, to addressing racial injustice and inequity. And, as education, healthcare, and other critical services become increasingly dependent  on technology, access to broadband and accessible technology are also fundamental to a more equitable future.
9  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
 
 
 
 Protect human rights 
OUR COMMITMENTS OUR IMPACT
Aspire to leadership in human rights and 
serve as a catalyst for action by others in the tech sector and beyond. Our Devices’ Responsible Sourcing program conducted risk assessments (comprising environmental and social criteria) of 100% of our active factories—a supply chain that employs 971,400 workers, including 11,334 international migrant workers. 
Resolved all 160 cases raised for issues like 
wa
ges, benefits, and working hours through the 
anonymous Workers’ Voice Hotline, available to 313,484 workers across 227 factories through our Devices’ Responsible Sourcing program. 
Advocate for fair and humane immigration policies as an integral part of our society’s growth and development. Continued to advocate for immigration reform and the protection and strengthening of the US Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, including offering pro bono legal services to 99 DACA recipients. 
Preserve and enrich cultural heritage by empowering people and organizations with AI to help them preserve the languages we speak, the places we live, and the artifacts we treasure, including through $10 million in investments by 2024. 
 
Achieved by target date Surpassed our commitment to invest $10 million over five years, including through a project in partnership with the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Sports in Greece launched in October 2021. “ Ancient Olympia: 
Com
mon Grounds ” has allowed more than 
16
0,000 people around the world to experience 
a historically authentic digital restoration of the ancient ruins of Olympia through a web experience, mobile app, and HoloLens 2 exhibition at the Athens Olympic Museum. Safeguard democracy 
OUR COMMITMENTS10 
Preserve, protect, and advance democracy by promoting a healthy information ecosystem, safeguarding electoral processes, and advocating for corporate civic responsibility. OUR IMPACT
Provided AccountGuard nation-state threat notification service in 32 countries, protecting over 4.4 million accounts of election officials, human rights organizations, journalists, and other organizations essential to a healthy democracy. 
Expanded ElectionGuard —a free, open-source 
so
ftware development kit—to six new partners, 
broadening the number of voting system 
manufacturers implementing this verifiability technology, increasing ways of voting in the US and internationally, and reaching more voters. 
Continued five local news pilot collaborations 
sp
anning 23 newsrooms in the US and Mexico 
to protect and preserve local journalism, while extending our journalism initiative globally through partnerships with the Thomson Reuters 
Fo
undation , Report for the World , and others. 
4.4M 
accounts protected, 
including those of 
elections officials, human 
rights organizations, 
journalists, and more   
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 11 
Support humanitarian action and emergency response 
OUR COMMITMENTS
Empower humanitarian organizations and 
crisis-affected communities to prepare for, respond to, and recover from emergencies, including through our AI for Humanitarian Action initiative. OU R IMPACT
Responded to six humanitarian emergencies  
in five countries through donations,  
technology, services, and employee giving,  
including our response to support people  
impacted by the war in Ukraine. 
Completed 12 AI for Humanitarian Action 
proje
cts and launched eight new projects 
cov
ering disaster preparedness, engagement 
with vulnerable populations, and the use of image recognition to support improved health outcomes. 
Photo courtesy of T eam Rubicon 12 
AI for Humanitarian 
Action projects 
completed Ensure equitable access 
OUR COMMITMENTS OUR IMPACT
Bring affordable broadband to more than 43 million people in underserved communities around the world by July 2022, and expand our work to US cities and states with significant broadband adoption gaps. 
Achieved by target date Helped more than 50 million people in unserved rural communities globally gain access to affordable broadband since 2017. Expanded our work to eight US cities and five states with significant broadband adoption gaps as part of our commitment to address racial inequity. 
Launched the Microsoft Digital Equity Dashb 
oard to help US policymakers and 
comm
unities identify neighborhoods where 
funding and programmatic investment can achieve measurable impact. 
Help bridge the disability divide through a five-year commitment, launched in April 2021, to expand accessibility in technology, the workforce, and workplace. 
Commitment in progress Added new accessibility features to Windows 
11, i
ncluding Live Captions, Voice Access, and 
Focus Mode. And, use of Office Accessibility Checker—our ‘spellcheck’ for accessibility—grew 9X over last year.  
Along with partner companies, launched the Neurodiversity Career Connector , a 
jobs m 
arketplace for job seekers who are 
neurodivergent. Since launch, 900+ individuals have identified a role and connected with an employer. 
50M+ 
people in unserved 
rural communities 
gained access 
to broadband   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
   Disco1212 
STORIES OF IMPACT
Helping artisans in South America 
use the internet to sell their products to the world 
Handicrafts are an important source of 
income in South America’s remote Gran Chaco region. Microsoft Airband partnered with Avina Foundation to bring broadband access and internet training to the region, making it possible for 1,600 women from the Pilagá Indigenous Community to find a global market for their products. Through the program, women are leading their own ventures online, which is extending internet service and usage to the people in their community. 
Discover how broadband access 
is changing lives
“When I was nine years old, I learned to make crafts 
with my mother, and she from my grandmother. 
Before, we had to wait for a buyer who came 
once a year. It was expensive. Now, once I publish 
on the Internet, I receive messages from clients 
in one or two hours.” 
Karen Herrera 
Artisan and program participant WHAT WE’RE LEARNING
Journalism and local news continue to 
face multiple threats, which is catalyzing action across communities and organizations. We’re learning we can play an important convening role—engaging communities, formerly competing newsrooms, and potential sources of funding—to foster the kinds of collaboration that will be essential to progress. 
Through data, innovation, and advocacy to address policy and practice, we continue 
to effect change. Our 
digital equity strategy  
is an example of how we help shape public investments for communities most impacted 
by the digital divide and provide insight to local decision makers on critical digital access needs. 
Technology can help create an equitable environment for people with disabilities to learn, 
work, and play. Our goal is to make accessibility features that are easy to find and use. To help with this, we must continue to actively seek out engagement from the disability community to inform our approach. 
For more fundamental rights reports,  
visit our Reports Hub  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 1313 
SPOTLIGHT
Address racial 
injustice and inequity  
In 2020, we made a commitment to help address racial injustice 
and inequity experienced by Black and African American communities. We outlined a holistic approach  across three key 
ar 
eas—increasing our representation and strengthening inclusion, 
engaging our ecosystem, and strengthening our communities—with a goal of expanding our learnings to other racial and ethnic minority communities in the US and around the world. 
Increasing representation and strengthening inclusion 
 OUR COMMITMENTS
Invest an additional $150 million 
to strengthen our culture of inclusion and double the number of Black and African American, and Hispanic and Latinx people managers, senior individual contributors, and senior leaders in the US by 2025. 
Commitment in progress OUR IMPACT
As of June 2022, we are 116% of the way to our goal for Black and African American people managers (below director level), and 92% of the way for Black and African American directors+ (people managers and individual contributors). Additionally, we are 46.5% of the way for Hispanic and Latinx people managers (below director level), and 57.6% of the way for Hispanic and Latinx directors+ (people managers and individual contributors). WHAT WE’RE LEARNING
We continue to make meaningful progress in D&I supported by executives wh
o influence change in their teams. 
For all Partners and Executives, we take into account their individual progress when determining their impact, rewards, and promotion. We also provide them with D&I coaches to help them confront obstacles to change and with updated Inclusive Hiring Training, which is required for all managers. 
Engaging our ecosystem 
OUR COMMITMENTS
By June 2023, grow our investment activity with Black and African American-owned financial institutions, double the number of Black and African American-owned approved suppliers and spend an incremental $500 million with those and existing suppliers, and increase the number of Black and African American-owned partners in the US as part of our Black Partner Growth Initiative. 
Commitment in progress OUR IMPACT
Met our goal to create a $100 million program focused on mission-driven banks and committed $50 million to create an investment fund focused on supporting Black and African American-owned small businesses. 
We are more than 90% of the way 
to
wards our commitment to spend an 
incremental $500 million with double the number of Black and African American-owned suppliers. 
The number of identified partners in our Black Partner Growth Initiative  
has increased by more than 150%, su
rpassing our initial goal. WHAT WE’RE LEARNING
By listening to the individual needs of communities, suppliers, and partners, we have adapted our programs to meet their needs more effectively. For example, we developed training workshops through AMP’D, our supplier mentorship and development program, to help advance skills and readiness, enhance productivity and collaboration, and develop business growth strategies. 
L    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    14
S P O T L I G HT 14 
Strengthening our communities 
OUR COMMITMENTS
Use data, technology, and partnership to help 
improve the lives of Black and African American people, which includes our employees and their communities, in the areas of justice reform, skills and education, broadband connectivity, and nonprofit support. 
OUR IMPACT
Coordinated over 80 Justice Reform Initiative partnerships with 70 organizations to help 145 communities expand access to data-driven insights and advance a more equitable system of justice and public safety. 
Established partnerships with 18 Historically Black Colleges and Universities and provided $8 million in funding in the past two years. 
Continued our work in eight US cities to increase digital equity for racial and ethnic minority communities and began addressing broadband availability and adoption across the rural south, with new connectivity partnerships in Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia covering over 350,000 previously unserved residents. Enrolled more than 1,500 community-based organizations working across 1,100 US communities to receive technology and services through our 
Nonprofit Tech Acceleration  program. 
Completed the first year of programming for 50 Black and African American-led community-based nonprofits, providing $15 million in grants, capacity building support, and tech enablement services reaching nearly 8,000 people. 
Expanded our Technology Education and 
Learning Support  program to nearly 290 high 
schools in 21 cities with large Black and African American communities to promote equitable access to computer science education. WHAT WE’RE LEARNING
As every community faces a unique set of challenges and opportunities, we depend on the expertise of nonprofits and organizations embedded within communities. We work collaboratively with them to create data and technology-enabled solutions designed to fit the unique needs of the organizations and the communities they serve. 
80 
partnerships 
formed through our Justice 
Reform Initiative to help 
145 communities advance 
more equitable systems of 
justice and public safety 
Learn more about how we’re addressing racial 
injustice and inequity on our Reports Hub   
   
  
15 
Create a 
sustainable future 
Climate change is the defining issue of our 
generation, and addressing it requires swift, collective action and technical innovation. We’ve outlined ambitious commitments and detailed plans to achieve them, and we’re helping others set and achieve their own climate goals. 
Learn more about how we create a sustainable future 
  
  
  
   
     
   
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
l16 
Carbon negative 
OUR COMMITMENTS
By 2030, we will be carbon negative, and  
by 2050, we will remove our historical  emissions since we were founded in 1975.  
Commitment in progress OUR IMPACT
Reduced our Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) emissions by 58,654 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (
mtCO 2e). Scope 3 
emissions increased by 22.7%. 
In Fiscal Year 2021 and Fiscal Year 2022, success fully contracted to remove 2.5 million 
metric tons of carbon, meeting our cumulative two-year goal. 
Signed new power purchase agreements for approxima tely 5.8 gigawatts of renewable 
carbon-free energy across 10 countries, helping us progress on our pathway to carbon negative. Scope 1  
Direct emissions created  
by our activities 
Scope 2  
Indirect emissions from the  consump tion of the electricity 
or heat we use  
Scope 3  
Indirect emissions from  all other ac tivities in which 
we’re engaged  
Water positive 
OUR COMMITMENTS
By 2030, we will replenish more water than 
we use. We will reduce the water intensity of our direct operations and replenish in water-stressed regions where we work. 
Commitment in progress OUR IMPACT
Invested in replenishment projects that are expected to generate over 1.3 million cubic meters of volumetric benefits, bringing us to 21 replenishments in nine water basins around the world. 
Provided more than 95,000 people with access to sa fe water or sanitation through 
our partnership with 
Water.org . 
95K+  
people provided  
with access  
to safe water  
or sanitation  NOTE: Due to required timelines to audit and assure our 
environmental sustainability data after the close of each fiscal year, the data in this section covers the reporting period for our Fiscal Year 2021, from July 1, 2020 – June 30, 2021. 
Our history 2012–2019 2012 
100% carbon neutral.  
Internal carbon  
fee instituted. 2016 
Zero waste 
campus certification 
for Puget Sound. 2017 
AI for Earth launch.  
LEED Gold certification  
for new datacenters. 2018 
Supplier carbon 
engagement in China 
launched. Net zero potable 
water. Silicon Valley 
campus groundbreaking. 2019 
Carbon fee raised to $15. 
Water replenishment 
goal set. 
Our commitments 2020–2050 2025 
Operate with 100% 
renewable energy. 
Protect more land 
than we use. 2030 
Become carbon negative, 
zero waste, and 
water positive. 2050 
Remove all 
historical emissions. 24
Petabytes of data  
publicly available  
on Azure
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
Zero waste 
OUR COMMITMENTS
By 2030, we will be zero waste across our 
direct waste footprint. 
Commitment in progress OUR IMPACT
Diverted more than 15,200 metric tons of solid waste across our direct operational footprint that was otherwise headed to landfills and incinerators. 
Reduced single-use plastics in our Microsoft product packaging by 18%. 
Five Circular Centers planned, which reuse 
datacenter hardware to help manage e-waste; 
one is open in Amsterdam with others opening in Boydton, Virginia, Chicago, Dublin, and Singapore in 2022. 
Protect and preserve ecosystems 
OUR COMMITMENTS
We will protect more land than we use by 2025. 
Achieved by target date OUR IMPACT
Contracted to protect over 17,000 acres of land, which is 50% more than the land we use to operate. 
Through our Planetary Computer, made 24 petabytes of data publicly available on 
Azure, with over 30 environmental and Earth observation datasets in an analysis-ready format—empowering scientists to craft more effective strategies to protect and restore ecosystems. 
  24 
petabytes of data  
publicly available  
on Azure through 
our Planetary 
ComputerNOTE: Due to required timelines to audit and assure our 
environmental sustainability data after the close of each fiscal year, the data in this section covers the reporting period for our Fiscal Year 2021, from July 1, 2020 – June 30, 2021. Responsible Sourcing 
As part of our commitment to a more  
sustainable future, we operate an industry-leading Responsible Sourcing Program—proactively managing issues related to human  rights, environment, health and safety, and  ethics. We work closely with our suppliers to  ensure our standards and commitments are  met, including our commitment to reduce our  Scope 3 emissions by more than half, which  is critical to our goal to be carbon negative  by 2030.     
For example, in May 2021, we conducted a third-party carbon assessment on a strategically 
selected pilot study factory in Zhejiang province, China. Findings from the factory’s Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions assessment indicated the factory was one of the highest carbon-emitting facilities in its category. 
Responsible Sourcing worked with the supplier to establish sustainability commitments, 
followed by monthly reporting and tracking of key performance indicators. Progress to-date has shown improvement across a number of carbon metrics. And the company 
achieved Zero Waste to Landfill Platinum Certification from Underwriter Laboratories. 
Global supply chains provide vital income to communities and support economic progress 
around the world. Creating a responsible supply chain is challenging work, but it is crucial to advancing Microsoft’s mission and enabling sustainable development. 
Learn more in our Responsible Sourcing report 
 
  
 
 
 
-  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     18 
STORIES OF IMPACT
Grupo Bimbo accelerates its 
sustainability journey with Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability 
Sustainability has always been an essential 
part of everyday business at Grupo Bimbo, the Mexico based international producer of baked goods and snack foods. To help achieve its ambitious sustainability goals, Grupo Bimbo is deploying Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability, which helps organizations collect, track, and analyze their sustainability metrics. Grupo Bimbo has a comprehensive strategy encompassing nutrition, social impact, waste, and water. With connectivity to its data sources becoming established and automated, Grupo Bimbo will spend less time on manual data collection, and more time understanding the company’s environmental footprint and making decisions that help it meet or exceed its sustainability goals. 
Learn how Grupo Bimbo is connecting 
data for insights to deliver on carbon goals 
“Microsoft has done a lot of work around 
sustainability itself, and it was important for us 
to work with a technology supplier that shares 
our values.” 
Juan Pajón,  
Business Technology Global Senior Vice 
President, Grupo BimboWHAT WE’RE LEARNING
Because carbon data and measurement are 
improving, progress on carbon reduction will 
not be linear. As Microsoft and the world mature in carbon accounting, we’ll continue to get better at understanding how our decisions reduce, or sometimes, increase, carbon emissions. 
Carbon removal lacks the common standards needed to scale. In January 2021, Microsoft announced the 
world’s largest carbon removal purchase in history. We’re now working to help build the new carbon removal market with integrity and quality. We need the enabling infrastructure to measure, monitor, and verify the quality of carbon removal. 
It’s hard to make the business case for water investments because the true cost of water is not 
aligned to its true value. Utility bills only provide some of the data organizations need to manage risks and reduce water use, and they typically don’t arrive for months. By installing sensors across our datacenters, we’ve been able to track water use in real time, so we can monitor reductions and improve water efficiency. 
“Circularity” supports decarbonization. Activities such as purchasing recycled materials, offering a 
service model, or keeping materials in use longer can reduce the embodied carbon of materials. This plays a key role in reaching our commitment to cut our Scope 3 emissions in half by 2030. 
For more sustainability reports, visit our Reports Hub     
 19 
Earn  
trust  
At Microsoft, we’re optimistic about the 
benefits of technology, yet clear about  the challenges. To drive positive impact with technology, people need to be able  to trust the technologies they use and  the companies behind them. 
Learn more about how we earn trust 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  20 
Advance cybersecurity and digital safety 
OUR COMMITMENTS OUR IMPACT
Invest $20 billion over five years, starting 
in 2021, to advance our security solutions, including $150 million to help US government agencies upgrade protection. 
Commitment in progress 43 trillion security signals are processed daily, and the insights are used to inform increased protections. 
Blocked 34.7 billion identity threats and 37 billion email threats. 
Sent over 67,000 nation state-related threat notifications to customers over the last four 
years, helping them to protect themselves from digital threats. 
Build public-private partnerships to address increasingly complex cybersecurity threats 
and to safeguard the interests of organizations and individuals. Co-authored a “Commitment to Consumer 
IoT Device Security” endorsed by more than 
100 companies, civil society groups, and government agencies from around the world. 
Tracked more than 35 unique ransomware families and 250 unique cybercriminal and 
nation state threat actors. OUR COMMITMENTS
Lend our knowledge and experience to address illegal and harmful content online and deliver our services so they are tools of empowerment for people and do not contribute, however indirectly, to causing harm. OUR IMPACT
Released disaggregated gender data from six years of our 
Digital Civility Index research 
to improve understanding of the online risks 
facing women and girls. 
Contributed to development of TRUST:  
Voluntary Framework for Industry Transparency  
as a member of the Tech Coalition, the industry NGO fo cused on preventing child sexual 
exploitation and abuse online. 
43T 
security signals 
processed daily 
to inform 
increased 
protections   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 2121 
Respect privacy 
OUR COMMITMENTS
Preserve customers’ ability to control their 
data and make informed choices to protect their privacy, and advocate for strong privacy laws that require companies, including ours, to be accountable and responsible in their collection and use of personal data. OUR IMPACT
In 2021, over 26 million people used the Microsoft privacy dashboard , to control their 
d 
ata and make meaningful choices about how 
it’s used. 
Supported the new Trans-Atlantic Data Privacy 
F
ramework and committed to meet or exceed 
the requirements it outlines. 
26M+ 
people used the 
Microsoft privacy 
dashboard 
Develop and use tech responsibly 
OUR COMMITMENTS
Put our principles for the responsible development and use of AI into practice, not only within Microsoft, but by empowering our customers and partners to do the same and by advocating for policy change. 
Provide clear reporting and information on 
h
ow we run our business and how we work 
with customers and partners, delivering transparency that is foundational to trust. OUR IMPACT
Released our Responsible AI Standard, 
w
hich outlines 17 goals aligned to our six AI 
p
rinciples , and includes tools and practices 
t
o support them. 
Published our Responsible AI Impact A
ssessment template and guide, which shares 
what we have learned about the impact AI may have on people, organizations, and society. 
Released 14 Transparency Notes for our 
A
I platform services to help developers build 
responsible AI products and services. 
Shared our open-source tools, including 
th
e new Responsible AI dashboard, to help 
developers build AI technologies responsibly and identify, diagnose, and mitigate issues before deployment.   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
’   
  
’  
’     
   
 
    
” 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
    
     
      
 
  
 
  STORIES OF IMPACT22 
NHS uses Azure to spot patients 
facing increased risks during surgery 
In northeast England, orthopedic surgeons Mike 
Reed and Justin Green of Northumbria Healthcare NHS (National Health Service) Foundation Trust are exploring how AI can help practitioners better explain surgical risks and mitigate potential problems. The team developed an AI model that applies data science and machine learning to historical data on surgical outcomes. Using Microsoft Azure Machine Learning and Microsoft’s Responsible AI dashboard, the team produces a personalized and detailed patient assessment model that is easy to interpret. This is empowering the partnership between the patient, the doctor, and the hospital. Patients can make a more informed decision on their procedure, doctors and surgical staff can be on the alert for possible issues, and hospital schedulers can assign patients to a facility with a level of care appropriate to their risk factors. The benefits of the technology have prompted England’s healthcare sector to expand a variety of AI models across its healthcare system over the next year. 
Read more about how AI is unlocking healthcare 
solutions in the UK 
“In healthcare, AI can’t just be a black box  
that takes inputs, performs unknown calculations  
on them, and produces a result. If we’re going to 
change a patient’s care plan based on the results of 
the application, we need to know why it generated that 
result… with the Responsible AI dashboard, we have the 
tools to understand, refine, and explain our outcomes  
so we can better serve our patients.” 
Dr. Justin Green (pictured, right) 
Orthopedic Surgical Registrar, 
Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust WHAT WE’RE LEARNING
Our Digital Crimes Unit continues to innovate and find ways to use its experience in botnet disruptions to conduct coordinated operations that go beyond malware. This will require creative engineering, sharing of information, innovative legal theories, and public and private partnerships. 
Our Responsible AI Standard sets out practical approaches for identifying, measuring, and 
mitigating potential harms, and requires teams to adopt controls to secure beneficial uses and guard against misuse. 
As global dialog continues to set new norms and laws in cyberspace, we believe that industry, 
academia, civil society, and government need to collaborate to advance the state of the art and learn from one another. 
For more trust reports, visit our Reports Hub  
 23 
Our approach to reporting
 
OUR GOAL
Microsoft strives to conduct our business 
in ways that are principled, transparent, and accountable to our shareholders and other key stakeholders. We believe that doing so generates long-term value for our company, our customers, and our communities. As we work to help everyone achieve more, we are committed to improving our world and reporting our progress. We also share our learnings and practices to foster industry dialogue, inform public debate, and—ultimately—help advance greater progress.  
  
WORKING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We know that the decisions we make affect our employees, customers, partners, shareholders, suppliers, and communities, and we take their voices into account. We bring outside perspectives into the company and inform our business decisions through a variety of feedback channels.  TOPIC PRIORITIZATION, 
MATERIALITY, AND GOVERNANCE
Microsoft’s prioritization across Environmental, 
Social, and Governance topics includes a wide range of strategic planning processes by our senior management and many others across the enterprise. It also includes stakeholder input and careful consideration of the impacts of our core businesses as they evolve. Our Board of Directors also provides insights, feedback, and oversight across a broad range of environmental and social matters, as detailed in our annual proxy statement. 
Learn more about our approach to reporting
  
View all of our reports on our Reports Hub  
OUR DISCLOSURES
We inform our disclosure strategies with  careful consideration of commonly used global standards, including: 
  Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
  UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for our 
Responsible Sourcing Program 
The United Nations Guiding Principles  
on Business and Human Rights Reporting  Framework can be found in: 
 
 
 
 Annual Human Rights Report 
We also follow issue-specific 
standards including:
TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures) report
Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
EEO-1 (Equal Employment Opportunity) diversity disclosure
CDP disclosures 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 24 
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Supporting the 
UN Sustainable Development Goals 
As part of pursuing our mission and our 
commitments, Microsoft has contributed to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) since 2015, when the United Nations (UN) created them. Today, we support the SDGs through our leadership and our investments in programs, partnerships, and initiatives—seeking to unleash the power of digital technology to advance progress across the 17 goals. 
In March 2020, we created a UN Affairs team to deepen our relationship with the UN. The team focuses on advancing our partnerships with the UN and its agencies, building relationships and identifying new opportunities for partnerships, advocating for the UN’s priorities within Microsoft, and supporting our teams in their engagements and advocacy with the UN community. Our Vice Chair and President, Brad Smith, was appointed as an SDG Advocate in 2021. In this role, he aids UN Secretary-General António Guterres on critical issues at the intersection of technology and society, including bridging the digital skills gap and driving environmental sustainability. 
Finally, while many Microsoft initiatives directly and indirectly contribute to progress on all 17 SDGs, to leverage our resources most strategically and amplify the impact of our work and that of our partners, we  focus on four SDGs: Goal 4 – Quality Education, Goal 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth, Goal 13 – Climate Action, and Goal 16 – Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions. 
Our work on the SDGs aligns with and advances our commitment to create a more inclusive, equitable, sustainable, and trusted future. While the SDGs, like our social commitments, are complex and span several issues, the table to the right helps to illustrate the core alignment between our commitments and our contributions to the SDGs. 
Learn more about our work on the UN SDGs 
OUR COMMITMENTS SUPPORTED THROUGH OUR WORK ON THE SDGS
Support inclusive 
economic growth Goal 1 No Poverty 
Goal 2 Zero Hunger 
Goal 3 Good Health and Well-Being 
Goal 4 Quality Education 
Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 
Protect 
fundamental rights Goal 5 Gender Equality 
Goal 10  Reduced Inequalities 
Goal 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 
Goal 16 Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions 
Create a 
sustainable future Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation 
Goal 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 
Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production 
Goal 13 Climate Action 
Goal 14 Life Below Water 
Goal 15 Life on Land 
Earn trust Goal 9  Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure 
Goal 17  Partnerships for the Goals  
 T ogether , we can  
achieve more 
We’re proud of our progress, but know 
there is much more to do and that it will require all of us working together. Join us. 
Discover more at Microsoft.com/impact 
Follow Microsoft on The Issues 
