Achieving  
more together 
2021 Microsoft Impact Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  2 
INTRODUCTION 
Pursuing our 
mission and purpose 
As I write this, the world is confronting 
massive and compounding challenges. And our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more has never been more urgent or more needed. 
To realize this mission, we must ensure the technology 
we create benefits everyone on the planet, as well as the planet itself, by focusing on four interconnected pillars:  
Support inclusive economic opportunity 5 
Protect fundamental rights 9 
Create a sustainable future 15 
Earn trust 20 I’ve never been more optimistic about the potential of digital technology to overcome constraints and create new opportunity. 
As we share our progress in these areas, it reminds us that we are only as good as our commitment to 
keep learning, adapting, and empowering others to act. To drive real, structural change in the world, we must make a sustained commitment – together. 
I am certain that we will. 
Satya Nadella 
Chairman and CEO 
Read Satya’s Annual Shareholder letter Sharing what we 
learn so we can all do better 
Microsoft has long strived to be a 
leader in doing well by doing good, grounded in our mission and purpose. But as the needs and expectations of our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and our communities increase, we believe we can and should rise to meet them. 
That’s why we continue to invest in minimizing our 
environmental impacts, generating social value, and maintaining the highest governance standards as a way of doing business, rather than as short-term initiatives or campaigns. This includes addressing how our company is run, how our Board of Directors governs, and how we hold ourselves accountable— to ensure a level of integrity of which we’re all proud. 
Our commitment to reporting on our impact means going beyond setting ambitious goals to measuring 
our progress and sharing what we learn—so that we and others can do better. This report is a summary of our efforts across our company, our ecosystem, and the world in Fiscal Year 
2021, yet it represents just a small part of our work. Our Reports Hub provides detailed reporting across our environment, social, and governance efforts, giving us and our stakeholders a chance to reflect on our progress so we can continue to raise the bar for ourselves, the communities we serve, and the planet. 
I’m proud of what we have achieved so far, but I know that we can and must do more together to 
build a more inclusive, equitable, sustainable, and trusted future for everyone. 
Brad Smith 
President and Vice Chair 
Microsoft UN Sustainable Development Goals Report 
Visit our Reports Hub 3 Fundamental rights 
HOW WE WORK 
Foster collective 
action and  amplify impact 
The challenges facing the world 
are complex, and no one company, industry, or country can solve them alone. That’s why we work across sectors and borders to foster collective action and amplify impact, driving progress faster and wider than we could on our own. Empower  
our employees 
Our 190,000 employees are the driving force 
behind our mission and purpose. We strive to create an inclusive culture where each of them can thrive. 
96% of employees completed diversity and inclusion 
courses on allyship, covering, and privilege . 
Employees gave $214 million (with company match) 
to nonprofits around the world. 
22,000+ US employees volunteered over 590,000 hours to causes they care about, including more than 9,000 hours of 
free legal aid . Equip 
changemakers 
Nonprofits and social entrepreneurs are 
forces for change. We make technology, purpose-built solutions, and support  affordable so they can achieve more. 
$2.5 billion in donated or discounted technology  
to 295,000 nonprofits around the world. 
Created Microsoft Cloud for Nonprofit  to help  
nonprofits increase their scale and impact. 
Expanded grants and discounts to 75,000 aged 
care nonprofits that continue to be at the front 
lines of the pandemic. 
Empowered 160+ social entrepreneurs in more 
than 60 countries. 4 Fundamental rights 
Activate 
our ecosystem 
With 17 million partners, thousands of 
suppliers, and 75 million customers in 190 countries, we have an enormous opportunity and responsibility to effect change through our ecosystem. 
Collaborated with 55 of our largest global partners 
to advance shared social impact goals including skills training and using AI for Good. 
Spent more than $6 billion with US diverse-owned businesses as part of our 
Supplier Diversity program . 
Partnered with thousands of our suppliers to uphold  our commitments to human rights, worker health and safety, and the environment through our 
supplier code of 
conduct , training, and capacity building. Engage 
local communities 
Change happens locally. We work closely with 
local communities to understand their unique challenges and assets so we can best support their aspirations. 
Invested in 220 projects in 17 communities spanning 11 
countries where Microsoft has datacenters, supporting 
local needs from sustainability to economic opportunity. 
Catalyzed more than $43 million in additional funding across seven US regions through 
Microsoft TechSpark , 
through which we partner locally to ensure everyone can benefit from the digital economy. 
Allocated $510 million of our $750 million affordable 
housing commitment to help preserve and create over 
7,500 housing units in the communities surrounding 
our Redmond, Washington headquarters. Enable 
systemic change 
We work to enable lasting, systemic change, 
including by advocating for public policies 
that move us toward a more inclusive, equitable, sustainable, and trusted future. 
Champion strong privacy laws to hold companies 
responsible in their collection and use of personal data. 
Advocate on key sustainability policy issues, including empowering consumers through transparent universal carbon standards of goods and services. 
Support fair and humane US immigration policies as 
an integral part of our society’s growth and development.   Support inclusive  
economic  opportunity 
We believe that economic opportunity should be inclusive— 
for every country, every community, every organization, and every person—including more than one billion people with disabilities. This starts with increasing access to technology, digital skills, and data, and extends to how we promote accessibility and support public health. 5 
Learn more about how we support 
inclusive economic opportunity 
 6 
OUR COMMITMENTS
Ensure access to technology, skills, and opportunity 
Technology can change lives, but only 
if people have access to it. We’re working to increase equitable access to broadband, technology, skills, and data to deliver more opportunities for people and communities  to thrive in an increasingly digital world. 
Bring affordable broadband to more than 43 million people in underserved communities around the world by July 2022, including expanding our work to eight US cities with significant broadband adoption gaps. 
Help 25 million people worldwide learn digital skills to pursue in-demand jobs by December 2021. Increase access to equitable computer science education. 
Increase access to data, a key tool for addressing societal and business challenges, by establishing 20 new data collaborations by 2022 with nonprofits, universities, companies, and governments. 
Help bridge the Disability Divide through a new five-year commitment, launched in April 2021, to expand accessibility in technology, the workforce, and workplace. Protect public health 
Continue to support individuals, organizations, and communities as they respond to and recover from the pandemic. In 2020, we launched a five-year, $60 million investment  in AI for Health to empower organizations with AI and data science to help them improve the health of people and communities worldwide. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
      
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  OUR IMPACT SO FAR 
Ensure access to technology, skills, and opportunity  7 
33M+ 
Since 2017, we have helped more than 33 million 
people in underserved communities globally gain access to affordable broadband coverage, and we launched pilots in eight US cities last year to increase digital equity. 
42M 
42 million learners around the world have accessed 
digital skills training  and resources, 
thanks in large part to over 40 public-private partnerships with governments, nonprofits,  
and customers.1,460 
1,460 tech volunteers helped teach 580 
computer science (CS) classes  in 450 high 
schoo
ls in the US and Canada. 44% of 
students identified as being from a racial or ethnic group historically excluded from CS careers. 
9 
We helped launch nine open data 
collaborations with nonprofits, universities, compan 
ies, and governments to promote 
equitable access to data. 7.1% 
For the first time, our annual Diversity & Inclusion Report gave employees the opportunity to identify as having a disability. As of June 2021, 7.1% of US employees self-identified as having a disability, giving us insight to ensure needed resources and support can be put in place. 
200M 
We introduced new “accessible by design” features in Microsoft 365, enabling more than 200 million people to create and share more accessible content. Protect public health  
$410M 
As of June 2021, more than $410 million had been committed in cash, technology, and other resources to support ongoing COVID-19 response efforts. 
200+ 
More than 200 grants have been awarded through our 
AI for Health 
initiative to organizations tackling the COV
ID-19 pandemic. 8 
OUR WORK IN ACTION 
Inclusive gaming 
builds connection 
Lindsey loves gaming. But her cerebral 
palsy meant she lacked the motor skills to play the games that her brother, Robert, would play. Microsoft’s Copilot mode— where two players use separate controllers to control one input—changed all this. Lindsey and her brother can now game together on their Xbox. 
Watch Lindsey’s story The multiplier  
effect 
We believe in the power of partnership. 
In 2021, we teamed up with 55 of our largest customers to take on issues like skilling and sustainability. 
Our collaboration with Volkswagen to support 
42 Wo
lfsburg—a free program to help teach 
coding, critical thinking, and creativity to thousands of underserved students—is one such partnership. We’ve combined the best  
of VW and Microsoft skilling resources to help students shape their futures based on their motivation and competence, rather than on formal qualifications. 
Learn more about our  
collaboration with Volkswagen WHAT WE’RE LEARNING 
• New jobs in the digital economy do not ne
cessarily require complete retraining. 
Employers and employees can work together to identify specific gaps and develop the digital skills needed, leading to more inclusive hiring and promotion opportunities. 
• By partnering with governments and pro
ven local partners, we can help build 
government capacity to deliver customized skilling and employment services at scale, ensuring millions of people can learn the skills most needed to succeed in their local labor markets. 
• Expanding access to computer science cou
rses is only a first step. To achieve 
equitable outcomes, we must also help schools provide inclusive instructional practices and learning spaces— particularly for students from groups that have been historically excluded. 
• We can’t create the next generation of acc
essible technology unless we attract 
more people with disabilities to play a bigger role in helping to develop it. 
  Protect  
fundamental  rights 
We unequivocally support the fundamental 
rights of people, from defending democracy,  to protecting human rights, to addressing  racial injustice and inequity. 
Learn more about how we 
protect fundamental rights 
9  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  10 
OUR COMMITMENTS 
Protect and promote human rights 
Aspire to leadership in business and human 
rights and serve as a catalyst for action by others in the tech sector and beyond. 
Advocate for fair and humane immigration policies as an integral part of our society’s growth and development. 
Help individuals and organizations in need overcome legal issues through pro bono support in partnership with legal services organizations. 
Preserve and enrich cultural heritage by empowering people and organizations with AI to help them preserve the languages we speak, the places we live, and the artifacts we treasure, including through $10 million in grants by 2024. Safeguard democracy 
Preserve, protect, and advance democracy by promoting a healthy information ecosystem, safeguarding electoral processes, and advocating for corporate civic responsibility. 
Support humanitarian action 
and emergency response 
Empower humanitarian organizations and 
crisis-affected communities to prepare for, 
respond to, and recover from emergencies, including through our AI for Humanitarian Action initiative. 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
    OUR IMPACT SO FAR 
Protect and promote human rights   
235 
We offered our Worker’s Voice Hotline program 
to 235 factories in our supply chain—a 14.9% increase over the previous year—ensuring that 371,597 workers had an anonymous reporting channel for worker grievances. 
+14.9% 
increase in use 
of our Worker’s Voice Hotline in our supply chain. 94 
Continued to advocate for immigration reform 
and the protection and strengthening of the US Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, including offering pro bono legal services to 94 DACA clients. 
$10.75M 
Awarded $10.75 million in grants—to be distributed over five years—to three organizations as part of our 
AI for Cultural Heritage  program, 
supporting the preservation of two languages 
and a project to preserve the culture of 
Ancient Olympia . Safeguard democracy 
Provided AccountGuard threat notification service in 32 countries, protecting more than 2.5 million accounts of election officials, journalists, human rights organizations, and other essential organizations. 
Partnered on a pilot with Hart InterCivic, a large US-based election systems vendor, 
to enable more secure and verifiable elections with our ElectionGuard software. 
Launched five local news pilots spanning 23 newsrooms in the US and Mexico to 
help protect and preserve local journalism across digital and traditional media. 11 
Support humanitarian action 
and emergency response 
$14M 
Contributed $14 million to six humanitarian 
emergencies in five countries through donations, technology, services, and employee giving. 
12 
Partnered on 12 AI for Humanitarian Action 
projects, from helping refugee families reunite to helping communities prepare for disasters.   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OUR WORK IN ACTION 
Saving lives with 
help from AI 
In May 2021, the fishing community in 
Puri, Odisha, India was struck by Cyclone Yass. Thanks to early warnings from an AI model, the lives and livelihoods of local residents were spared. 
The AI system was set up by SEEDS, a nonprofit that received financial and technical support from Microsoft and its partner, Gramener, through an AI for Humanitarian Action grant. The model uses high-resolution satellite imagery, advanced data analytics, and machine learning to forecast the impact of disasters—allowing communities to better plan for and respond to emergencies. 
Learn how SEEDS is applying AI 
WHAT WE’RE LEARNING 
• Trusted local journalism plays an important role in democratic societies. Supporting local reporting enables competing newsrooms to collaborate and experiment to create meaningful progress. 
• We believe we can more effectively respect human rights by being present 
in, rather than absent from, countries with significant human rights challenges. In the long run, engaging responsibly with people, governments, and other stakeholders in difficult environments often holds greater promise for the advancement of human rights. 
• While AI can play a key role in responding to, and recovering from, humanitarian 
emergencies, the first step in working with nonprofit organizations on AI projects is to help them with data consolidation and data architecture. This support enables them to fully harness the potential of AI in their work. 
Microsoft Annual Human Rights Report 
Microsoft Global Human Rights Statement 
Microsoft Pro Bono Report 
Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement 12 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    13 Fundamental rights 
SPOTLIGHT 
Address racial 
injustice and 
inequity 
In June 2020, we made a commitment to help address 
racial injustice and inequity experienced by Black and African American and Hispanic and Latinx communities. We outlined a holistic approach across three key focus areas—strengthening our communities, increasing representation and strengthening inclusion, and engaging our ecosystem—with a goal of expanding our learnings to other traditionally marginalized groups in the US and around the world. 
Learn more about our initiative INCREASING REPRESENTATION 
AND STRENGTHENING INCLUSION 
Our commitment 
Invest an additional $150 million to 
strengthen our culture of inclusion and double the number of Black and African American, and Hispanic and Latinx people managers, senior individual contributors, and senior leaders in the US by 2025. 
Our impact so far 
As of June 2021, we are 71% of the way for Black and African American people managers (below director level), and 39% of the way for Black and African American directors+ (people managers and individual contributors). Additionally, we are 26% of the way for Hispanic and Latinx people managers (below director level), and 23% of the way for Hispanic and Latinx directors+ (people managers and individual contributors). 
Global Diversity & Inclusion Report ENGAGING OUR 
ECOSYSTEM 
Our commitment 
By June 2023 , grow our investment activity 
with Black-owned financial institutions; 
double the number of Black-owned approved suppliers  and spend an incremental $500 
million  with those and existing suppliers; 
and increase the number of Black-owned 
partners in the US. 
Our impact so far 
300% 
Investments through Black-owned financial institutions have increased by more than 2.5x prior levels and the number of Black-owned businesses added to our supplier pipeline has grown more than 300%. The number of identified partners in our 
Black Partner Growth Initiative , designed to 
s
upport Black tech companies and entrepreneurs, 
has increased by more than 150%. 
Engaging our Ecosystem Report 14 
Harnessing pro bono  
services to support  racial justice 
After 37 years, Grady Mitchell received clemency 
in January 2021 through the work of the Seattle Clemency Project, which provides free direct legal services to incarcerated people in Washington state seeking clemency and pardons. Grady began a mentorship with Renate Norman, a Microsoft employee volunteer, who offered guidance as he started his own business, building a lifelong friendship in the process. Many of our employees share their time and professional skills to mentor Seattle Clemency Project clients who receive a range of skills,  from resume writing to general life skills. 
Watch Grady’s story STRENGTHENING OUR COMMUNITIES 
Our commitment 
Use data, technology, and partnership to help improve the lives of Black and African 
American, and Hispanic and Latinx people, which includes our employees and their communities, in the areas of justice reform, skills and education, broadband connectivity, and nonprofit support. 
Our impact so far 
8 
Pilots launched in eight US cities to increase access to affordable broadband, devices, and digital skills for racial and ethnic minority communities. 
255 
Expanded our Technology Education and Literacy in Schools program to 255 high schools across 20 cities with large Black communities, to promote equitable access to computer science education. 
Strengthening Our Communities Report $5.7M 
  
 Set up partnerships with nine Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and provided $5.7 million in funding through 2021. Our employees have donated over $1.1 million to HBCUs. 
1,300 
Enrolled more than 1,300 community-based organizations working across 900 US communities to receive digital transformation support through 
our Nonprofit Tech Acceleration program. 
52 
Coordinated 52 Justice Reform Initiative projects with 40 organizations over the last four years to help 127 communities move toward a more equitable system of justice and public safety. 
50 
Supported 50 Black-led community-based nonprofits in 23 states and Washington, D.C. WHAT WE’RE LEARNING 
• We are seeing meaningful change as we continue to hold managers and executives 
accountable for progress on representation and inclusion. We pair that with required learning for all employees and development programs that help support career growth throughout our organization. 
• Inclusive supply chain practices need to be embra ced to drive economic growth 
in the Black community. This means that corporations need to enable diverse-owned companies to compete for opportunities and create sustainable growth. 
• Our investments in Black-led institutions will take ti me to yield results. The partners we 
invest with need time to deploy committed capital to drive the desired impact. 
  
 Create a 
sustainable future 
Climate change is the defining issue of our generation, 
and addressing it requires swift, collective action and technical innovation. We’ve outlined ambitious commitments and detailed plans to achieve them, and we’re helping others set and achieve their own climate goals. 
Learn more about how we 
create a sustainable future 
 
15 Overview Economic opportunity Fundamental rights  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 16 
OUR COMMITMENTS 
There are four areas where we can scale our 
results by minimizing the environmental impacts of our operations and maximizing the positive impacts of our technology: Carbon, water, waste, and ecosystems. Our Responsible Sourcing Program extends this work across our supply chain. 
Carbon negative 
Become carbon negative by 2030 and match 100% of our electricity consumption, 100% of the time, with zero carbon energy purchases. 
By 2050, remove all the carbon we have emitted either directly or by electrical consumption since our founding in 1975. Empower our suppliers, customers, and partners to reduce their carbon footprints through sharing our learnings and the power of technology. 
Accelerate the development of carbon reduction and removal solutions with 
our $1 billion Climate Innovation Fund. 
Water positive 
Become water positive in our direct operations by 2030, replenishing more water than we use. 
Provide 1.5 million people with access to clean water and sanitization services by 2030. Zero waste 
Become zero waste by 2030 across our direct business. 
Eliminate single-use plastics in all Microsoft primary packaging and IT asset packaging in our datacenters by 2025. 
Protect and preserve ecosystems 
Protect more land than we use by 2025. 
Build a Planetary Computer  that combines 
data, machine learning, and computing 
power to help scientists monitor, model, and manage the planet’s natural resources. Responsible sourcing 
Operate an industry-leading Responsible 
Sourcing Program —proactively managing 
issues related to human rights, environment, health and safety, and ethics—and deepen engagement with suppliers to ensure our standards and commitments are met. 
Reduce our Scope 3 emissions—including those contributed by our supply chain—by more than half, as part of our commitment to be carbon negative by 2030. 
OUR HISTORY 2012–2019 2012 
100% carbon neutral.  
Internal carbon  
fee instituted. 2016 
Zero waste   
cam pus certification   
for Puget Sound. 2017 
AI for Earth launch.  
LEED Gold certification  
for new datacenters. 2018 
Supplier carbon  
engagement in China  
launched. Net zero potable  
water. Silicon Valley  
campus groundbreaking. 2019 
Carbon fee raised to $15.  
Water replenishment  
goal set. 
OUR COMMITMENTS 2020–2050 2025 
Operate with 100%   
renewable energy.   
Protect more land   
than we use.  2030 
Become carbon negative,  
zero waste, and   
water positive. 2050 
Remove all  
historical emissions. n FY21 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  OUR IMPACT SO FAR 
Carbon negative 17 
2.5M 
In FY21 and FY22, Microsoft successfully 
contracted to remove 2.5 million metric tons of carbon, meeting our cumulative two-year goal, which puts us on a path to meet our goal of 1.5 million metric tons of carbon in 2022. 
5.8GW 
Signed new power purchase agreements for approximately 5.8 gigawatts of renewable energy across 10 countries. 
$571M 
Allocated $471 million to date via our Climate 
Innovation Fund  to accelerate our carbon 
goals, as well as water and waste. We also 
donated $100 million to Breakthrough Energy’s Catalyst initiative. 16.9% 
Reduced Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based)  emissions by 16.9% year-over-year compared  to 2020. Total Scope 3 emissions have increased  by 22.7% compared to 2020.  
Scope 1 
Direct emissions created by yo ur activities 
Scope 2 
Indirect emissions from the consumption of the electricity or heat you use 
Scope 3 
Indirect emissions from all other activities in which you΄re engaged 
Launched 
Launched the Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability 
to help organizations record, report, and reduce their environmental impact. Water positive 
1.3M m3  
Invested 1.3 million in replenishment projects  that are expected to generate over 1.3 million  cubic meters of volumetric benefits. 670M 
670 million of water benefit accounted for through our programs with 
Water.org 
per year. 
95,000  
Provided 95,000 people in   India and Indonesia—particularly  women living below the poverty   line—with access to safe water   and sanitation through our   partnership with 
Water.org . 
3,038 India 
92,092 Indonesia 
Population provided 
with water access i
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
     OUR IMPACT SO FAR 
Zero waste 
15,200 
Diverted 15,200 metric tons of solid waste 
otherwise headed to landfills and incinerators. 
90%+ 
Achieved a 97% recyclable Xbox Series X and S, and a 93% recyclable metal Surface Laptop 4
*
* In Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) 
countries per UL methodology ECVP 2789. . 
Zero Waste 
Four datacenters certified as Zero Waste. 18% 
Reduced single-use plastics in 
our product packaging by 18%. 
5 
Five Circular Centers  planned, which reuse 
d
atacenter hardware to help manage 
e-waste; one is open in Amsterdam with others opening in Boydton, Virginia, Chicago, 
Dublin, and Singapore in 2022. Protect and preserve ecosystems 
17,000 
Contracted to protect more than 17,000 acres of land, putting us on a path to exceed our commitment to protect more land than we use by more than 5,000 acres. 
500+ 
The Planetary Computer private preview released in April 2021 with more than 500 users and 24 petabytes of global environmental data, which is now available for anyone to use. 
850+ 
Since 2017, our AI for Earth program has 
pr
ovided more than 850 grants to organizations 
working in 110 countries. 18 
Responsible sourcing 
87% 
87% of our in-scope suppliers reported their emissions to the Climate Disclosure Project, up 12% from 2020. 
Al Cu Li Mg Ni 
Extended mineral sourcing transparency efforts beyond conflict minerals to aluminum, copper, lithium, magnesium, and nickel to help us understand the risks associated with sourcing these materials. 
Microsoft Devices Responsible 
Sourcing Report   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 19 
OUR WORK IN ACTION
Speeding the transition 
to the circular economy 
All materials have potential value for 
recycling or reuse if properly collected, aggregated, and processed. Recycleye uses AI and robotics to revolutionize the waste management industry, accelerating the world’s transition to the circular economy. 
With strategic and technical support from 
M
icrosoft, the company brings greater 
transparency to the waste management industry by detecting materials on a facility’s conveyor belts to enable automated sorting. Millions of images from waste facilities are being used to train the solution, positioning Recycleye to increase their scale and impact on the world’s waste management. 
Learn about Recycleye’s innovative solutions 
Using technology to 
protect northern Australia 
For over a century, the wild cattle and buffalo 
in northern Australia have been problematic— threatening the ecology and economy. 
Today, Microsoft AI, combined with 
i
ndigenous knowledge and science, 
is helping manage the herds. 
Through the “SpaceCows” program, 
A
ustralia’s national science agency, CSIRO, is 
using AI to provide herd location forecasts to Indigenous rangers, enabling them to protect the environment and important cultural sites. 
Learn more about the SpaceCows program WHAT WE’RE LEARNING 
•Progress on carbon reduction will be non-linear  
as carbon data and measurement improves.  
As Microsoft and the world mature in carbon  
accounting, we will continue to improve our  
understanding of how our decisions reduce,  
or sometimes increase, carbon emissions.
•Circular economy initiatives do not share a standard  
method of measurement across industries or product  
types, and may not always accurately represent  
environmental impact. To scale implementation in  
the long term, we need the enabling infrastructure  
to measure, monitor, and verify material origin  
and flows.
•Water replenishment projects require oversight,  
monitoring, and validation of volumetric benefits  
through third-party quantification. Cultivating  
partners to identify the right project type for each  
unique location is critical.
•The easier it is for governments, academia, and  
industry to work together, the faster we can move in  
the same direction to solve the problems facing our  
world. This collaboration means doing things in the  
open: publishing open datasets, using and investing  
in open-source software, publishing open science,  
and making data accessible through open standards.
Microsoft Environmental Sustainability Report 
How we are 
earning trust 
At Microsoft, we’re optimistic about the benefits 
of technology, yet clear about the challenges.  To drive positive impact with technology, people need to be able to trust the technologies and the companies behind them. 
Learn more about how we earn trust 
20  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  21 
OUR COMMITMENTS 
Respect privacy 
Preserve customers’ ability to control their 
data and make informed choices to protect their privacy, and advocate for strong privacy laws that require companies, including ours, to be accountable and responsible in their collection and use of personal data. 
Advance cybersecurity 
and digital safety 
Invest $20 billion over five years, starting 
in 2021, to advance our security solutions, including $150 million to help US government agencies upgrade protection. 
Build public-private partnerships to address increasingly complex cybersecurity threats and to safeguard the interests of organizations and individuals. 
Lend our knowledge and experience to address illegal and harmful content online, and deliver our services so they are tools of empowerment for people and do not contribute, however indirectly, to causing harm. Develop and use tech responsibly 
Put our principles  for the responsible 
development and use of AI into practice, not only within Microsoft, but by empowering our customers and partners to do the same and by advocating for policy change. 
Provide clear reporting and information on 
how we run our business and how we work with customers and partners, delivering transparency that is foundational to trust. 
21 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 OUR IMPACT SO FAR 
Respect privacy 22 
51M 
51 million people have engaged with our privacy 
tools to date, enabling them to control their data and make meaningful choices about how it’s used. 
We were the first major te ch company to extend 
the rights of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation to all our consumers worldwide, and the rights of the California Consumer Privacy Act to all US consumers. 
Develop and use tech responsibly 
Shared our open-source tools to help devel 
opers build AI technologies responsibly, 
enabling them to identify, diagnose, and mitigate issues before deployment. 
Updated our Reports Hub to provide a si ngle, 
conso 
lidated view of key reports and resources 
related to our commitments and progress. A dvance cybersecurity and digital safety  
700K+ 
The Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit took down 
140,000+ malicious websites, disrupted or seized 700,000+ malicious domains, and rescued 4.8 million+ victims from cybercriminals.
20.5K+ 
More than 20,500 nation state-related threat notifications sent to customers over the last three years, giving them actionable information to help them rapidly respond to and protect themselves from digital threats. 
24T 
24 trillion security signals processed daily. Blocked 9 billion threats to devices, 31 billion identity threats, and 32 billion email threats, and used the insights to inform increased protections. 150+ 
Helped recruit more than 150 global technology companies to sign the Cybersecurity Tech Accord, an industry commitment to fundamental cybersecurity principles. 
1st 
Launched our first biannual Digital Safety Content 
Report , covering actions we’ve taken on child 
sexua
l abuse and exploitation imagery, terrorist 
and violent extremist content, and non-consensual intimate imagery. 
11,000 
As part of our 2021 Microsoft Digital Civility Index , 
we surv
eyed more than 11,000 teens and adults in 
22 countries to increase awareness of online risks and encourage respectful online practices. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 23 
OUR WORK IN ACTION 
Volunteers help nonprofits build 
cybersecurity capabilities 
The CyberPeace Institute is an independent 
nonprofit founded in 2019 with support from Microsoft and several other partners. Its goal is to de-escalate conflicts and promote peace and stability in cyberspace. 
In 2021, the Institute set up the CyberPeace 
Buil
ders program , bringing together expert 
volunteers from companies—including Microsoft—to provide free cybersecurity assistance to humanitarian nonprofit organizations, which often lack basic protection and are increasingly victims of cyberattacks. 
The volunteers help nonprofits that work 
in cri
tical sectors—such as health, water, 
food, energy, and finance—build resilience against cyberthreats so they can continue delivering critical services. 
WHAT WE’RE LEARNING 
• More coordination between the public and pr
ivate sectors is critical in today’s 
complex security landscape to defend against nation-state threats and to reduce illegal and harmful content online. Such borderless societal issues require coordinated global solutions, including increased sharing of cyberthreat activity. 
• Strong regulation has an important role to pl
ay. Privacy regulations preserve 
our ability to use and share data across borders while protecting individual privacy. AI guidelines and regulatory frameworks help close the gap between principles and practices as AI is rapidly developed and deployed. 
Microsoft Digital Defense Report 
Microsoft Privacy Report 
Microsoft’s Trust Code 
 
 
Together, we can  
achieve more 
We’re proud of our progress, 
but know there is still so much more to do and to learn. Join us. 
Learn more: Microsoft.com/impact 
Dive deeper: Microsoft.com/transparency 
Stay connected: @MSFTIssues 