Reimagining a better future together
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Table of contents
03 Letter from Satya Nadella
04 Our purpose 
06 Support inclusive economic opportunity 
14 Protect fundamental rights 
21 Commit to a sustainable future 
24 Earn trust
29 Empower our employees 
31 Our response to COVID-19
35 SASB Materiality Reference Index
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 3
A letter from Satya Nadella
While the start of a new decade typically brings hope, we quickly saw the world come to a near standstill in 2020, 
confronted by compounding crises: a public health and an economic crisis, persistent issues of systemic racial 
injustice and inequity, and the devastating effects of climate change. It is easy to fall prey to pessimism, or the sense 
that we individually or as a company can’t make a difference. But helplessness is corrosive to hope, and hope plus 
work is what is required. Amid this disruption, what’s clear is that we have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to 
harness digital technology to define the world we want to live in. And for that, I am optimistic.
It is in times like these that our ability to stay true to Microsoft’s mission and corporate purpose is of the utmost 
importance. As a company, we are steadfast in our mission to empower every person and every organization on  
the planet to achieve more.  Our mission is enduring. It drives who we are and everything we do, emphasizing our 
passion to empower both people and the lasting institutions they build. 
As we pursue our mission, we also recognize our enormous responsibility to ensure the technology we build benefits 
everyone on the planet, including the planet itself. We must always use technology to help address the world’s 
challenges, not create new ones.
But the challenges facing people and the planet are complex, and no one company, sector, or country can solve 
them alone. That’s why we’re committed to working across the public and private sectors to foster partnerships 
and solutions that will have lasting impact and redefine what “achieve more” means for the world. For us, it means 
focusing our efforts on four key commitments:
1) Support inclusive economic opportunity
2) Protect fundamental rights
3) Commit to a sustainable future
4) Earn trust
While we are proud to share our progress in these areas, we understand companies like ours that can do more, 
should do more. Our promise to you is this: we are, and we will. 
Satya Nadella
Chief Executive Officer
Support inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 4
By any measure we are living through extraordinary times
Our mission—to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve 
more—has never felt more urgent. These times demand different thinking, concerted effort,  
and collective action in partnership with our global community. 
As our CEO Satya Nadella mentioned in his opening letter to this report, we believe  
there are four areas where we must harness our resources if we are to continue to have  
a positive impact on the future of humanity and our planet. 
• We must ensure that economic opportunity is inclusive —for every country, developed and 
developing; every community, urban and rural; every business, small and large; and every 
person, including the one billion plus people with disabilities.
• We unequivocally and actively support the  fundamental rights  of people, from defending 
democracy, to addressing systemic racial injustice and inequity, to protecting human rights.
• We must address climate change for a sustainable future.  That’s why we’ve set ourselves 
ambitious climate goals and have detailed plans to achieve them, while empowering others  
to use technology to create and achieve their goals.
• We are committed to building trust in technology and its use. That’s why we take seriously 
our responsibility to earn trust.  Without trust, none of our progress is possible.In tackling these commitments, one of our strengths as a global company is our ability to drive 
impact at scale through our technology and in partnership with our global community.
We understand that meeting our responsibility to address these challenges and drive 
opportunity requires a principled approach, principles that guide us over the long term while 
inspiring us to take action today. Throughout this report, we’ll discuss our efforts over the last 
fiscal year, as well as new initiatives which we have launched in the last month or so, across our 
company and through an array of partnerships across our community to reimagine and build a 
more equitable and sustainable future in these unprecedented times. 
We know there is more work to do, that we must work faster, and that we cannot do it without 
our employees, customers, and partners. As always, we look forward to collaborating on this 
journey. 
Learn more about our approach to corporate social responsibility and reporting 
For the next 10 years, the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) represent a shared and universal commitment to deliver 
on ambitious global goals for people and the planet. Each SDG presents 
challenges bigger than any one organization—or even one sector 
of society—can accomplish alone. Microsoft believes in its shared 
responsibility as a business to apply the unique assets that a technology 
company of our scope and scale has toward the global effort needed to 
achieve the SDGs. We are committed to working with governments, civil 
society, and other companies to achieve more progress together. 
Learn about Microsoft and the United Nations sustainability goalsOur 
community163,000  employees
17 million partners
75 million  customers
190 countries
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 5
Impact at a glance
Support inclusive economic opportunity
200% growth
Our Disability Answer Desk has 
answered more than a million 
requests for technical support 
for people with disabilities and 
seen a 200% growth in calls 
since the start of the pandemic, 
which offers great feedback from 
the community as well as the 
opportunity to support people 
with disabilities in working with 
technology in this remote set up. 17.2M people 
In the three years since its 
launch, the Microsoft Airband 
Initiative has helped provide 
access to broadband for 2.1 
million people in the US who 
live in previously unserved rural 
areas. Outside of the country, 
we’ve done the same with 
connectivity for 15.1 million 
people living in rural areas.13M learners  
Since launching our Global Skills 
Initiative in June, Microsoft, 
LinkedIn, and GitHub have 
collectively reached more than 13 
million learners around the globe, 
a significant milestone towards 
our goal of reaching 25 million 
learners by early 2021. People 
from 231 countries and territories 
and all 50 US states have learned 
through the program.$1.9 billion
In fiscal year 2020, Microsoft 
provided $1.9 billion in 
donated or discounted 
products and services to help 
243K nonprofits globally better 
serve their communities.20 new collaborations
To help close the “data divide” 
we will develop 20 new data 
collaborations by 2022, 
partnering with nonprofits, 
universities, companies and 
governments to collaborate 
around data to address major 
societal and business challenges.$750 million
We’ve pledged $750 million in 
loans and grants to accelerate 
the construction of more 
affordable housing in the Puget 
Sound region. In total this year, 
we allocated over $380 million 
to support the preservation or 
creation of over 6,500 affordable 
housing units in the greater 
Seattle area. 
Protect fundamental rights
29 countries
We made our Microsoft AccountGuard threat notification service 
available at no cost to healthcare providers on the front lines as well 
as human rights and humanitarian organizations. Both AccountGuard 
for Healthcare and AccountGuard for Human Rights Organizations 
will initially be available to organizations in the 29 countries where we 
already offer AccountGuard.Nearly $4 billion
We have contributed nearly 
$4 billion with diverse-owned 
businesses, continuing to 
place Microsoft in the top 
20 companies for diversity 
spending globally.$42 million
We contributed $42 million to six humanitarian emergencies around 
the world through donations, technology, services, and employee 
giving. We also conducted 100+ Services Disaster Response missions 
in 28 countries involving over 1,000 employees providing critical 
technology support and solutions to nonprofit, government, and 
international organizations. 1 company
Microsoft was the only company 
to file a lawsuit to object to the 
rescission of the DACA Program 
in 2017, a case that went all the 
way to the Supreme Court. 
Commit to a sustainable future
21M metric tons
This year, our top suppliers 
reduced their collective 
carbon footprint by 21 million 
metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalents (CO2e).Preserve language
As part of our ongoing efforts to 
preserve languages around the 
world, in Southwestern Mexico 
we’re engaged in capturing and 
translating Yucatec Maya and 
Querétaro Otomi, using AI to 
make them more accessible to 
people around the world. Earn trust
7 privacy principles
We have developed 7 privacy 
principles for governments, 
public health authorities, 
academics, employers, and 
industries to consider as we 
collectively move forward with 
widespread COVID-19 tracking, 
tracing, and testing. 23 malware disruptions
Since 2010, our Digital Crimes 
Unit has collaborated with 
law enforcement and other 
partners on 23 malware 
disruptions, resulting in over 500 
million devices rescued from 
cybercriminals.Empower our employees
750,000 hours
In fiscal year 2020, Microsoft employees donated $221 million 
(inclusive of company match) to nonprofits worldwide and 
volunteered more than 750,000 hours in the US alone. 
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 6
Support inclusive 
economic opportunity
We believe that economic opportunity can 
and must be inclusive. That’s why we invest to 
help individuals, organizations, communities, 
and countries access pathways to growth and 
opportunity. When each of us succeeds, we 
all succeed.  Support inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 7
Promoting accessibility and inclusion
With more than one billion people with disabilities in the world, we believe accessibility and inclusion are essential to delivering on our mission.
Our commitments  
and approach
Technology can empower people 
to achieve more, help strengthen 
educational opportunities, and make 
the workplace more inclusive for people 
with disabilities. We are on a journey and 
continue to learn and grow as we move 
forward. We hope that by sharing what 
we’ve learned, other organizations can 
build out and accelerate their disability 
inclusion accessibility programs, hire great 
talent, and reduce the unemployment 
rate for people with disabilities. Our 
commitment to accessibility and disability 
inclusion is about more than the products 
and services we create; it extends to the 
culture of our workplace and the fabric of 
our company—from hiring people with 
disabilities, leaning into the principles 
of inclusive design to creating inclusive 
marketing, to building an accessible, 
modern workplace that empowers all 
employees.Highlights
AI for accessibility 
As part of our AI for Good Initiative, we are investing $25 million to support 
change makers through grants, investments of technology, and expertise to 
amplify the capabilities of people with disabilities. AI for Accessibility is about 
empowering individuals and teams who are passionate about making the 
world more inclusive and firmly rooted in the communities they intend to 
benefit. We want to invest in ideas that are developed by or with people with 
disabilities.
Accessibility of our products and services
We are committed to accessibility to empower every person and organization 
to achieve more. We work hard to design products and services that empower 
the more than one billion people with disabilities, promote an inclusive 
workplace and culture, and enable others to advance their accessibility journey. 
Across our products like Windows and Microsoft 365, accessibility features are 
embedded to help people stay connected and get work done.
Employees with disabilities
A strong and diverse workforce must also include people with disabilities. 
Employees with disabilities have been the catalyst of many great Microsoft 
innovations such as Learning Tools, Live captioning in Teams, the Xbox 
Adaptive Controller, Seeing AI, and many more. Disability is a strength  
and it is imperative that we continue to actively work to hire people with 
disabilities and bring their expertise into our processes, products, and  
culture at every level.
Accessibility evolution model 
In 2016, we rebuilt our company-wide accessibility program with a more 
systematic way to measure progress and set targets. This led to the 
development of our accessibility evolution model, which we have been using 
and improving for four years. It has enabled us to track progress, understand 
year-over-year growth by division and function and has powered our maturity. 
We are now sharing this model to help other organizations accelerate their 
accessibility journey and explore how to grow it in a sustainable way. Disability answer desk
Our disability answer desk has answered more than a million requests for 
technical support for people with disabilities. We have seen a 200% growth 
in calls since the start of the pandemic, which offers great feedback from 
the community as well as opportunity to support people with disabilities in 
working with technology in this remote set up. 
Designing inclusive AI
The Microsoft AI for Accessibility Program co-published two papers addressing 
the importance of disability inclusion in AI data collections: Disability, Bias, and 
AI Report (with AI Now Institute at NYU) and Sign Language Recognition and 
Translation. 
Disability representation
We encourage employees to voluntarily self-identify as having a disability, and 
in our Global Diversity and Inclusion Report 2020, we shared for the first time 
known disability representation in our US employee population. Of the 46.1% 
of US employees in our core Microsoft business who responded to the survey 
by September 1, 2020, 13.2% self-identified as having a disability. This amounts 
to 6.1% of all US employees in our core Microsoft business having already 
identified as a person with a disability.
Resources
Learn about our commitments to accessibility
Learn about our employees with disabilities
Learn about how grantees are making impact
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 8
Closing the broadband gap
Broadband is the electricity of the 21st century, but more than 18 million Americans don’t have access to broadband, including 14 million who live in rural 
areas. 49% of the global population doesn’t even have access to the internet. This leaves billions of people on the wrong side of the opportunity gap, 
meaning existing inequalities, poverty, and insecurity will persist and become more difficult to address.
Our commitments  
and approach
Through the Microsoft Airband 
Initiative, we seek to make affordable 
broadband access a reality for 
unserved communities around the 
world. The Airband Initiative also aims 
to help the communities we serve 
to digitally transform in the areas of 
healthcare, agriculture, education, and 
small business enablement or rural 
entrepreneurship.Highlights
Eliminating the rural broadband gap in the United States  
With more than 18 million Americans lacking access to broadband, including 
14 million who live in rural areas, we set ourselves an ambitious goal in 2017: to 
provide access to broadband to 3 million people in unserved rural areas of the 
United States by July 4, 2022. We’re on track to achieve our goal, and thus far 
have helped provide 2.1 million people with access to broadband in previously 
unserved rural areas of the US, and over 8.1 million people overall.
Expanding access to broadband for communities of color 
In June this year, we announced the expansion of our Airband Initiative beyond 
its rural focus to US cities, confronting some of the largest digital divides as 
part of our commitment to addressing racial inequity. 
Closing the global digital divide
In 2019 we set a goal to extend internet access to 40 million unserved and 
underserved people around the globe by July 2022. We are concentrating our 
efforts in areas with significant underserved populations—Asia, Latin America, 
and Sub-Saharan Africa – that have regulatory interest in solving connectivity 
issues. We’re well on our way toward achieving that goal and thus far have 
provided access to broadband to more than 16.7 million people outside the 
US, 15.1 million of which live in rural areas. 
Our partnerships
Elimination of the broadband gap requires deployment of low-cost technology 
at scale. We support businesses working to increase internet and energy access 
and make it more affordable. Partnerships include co-investment and access to 
resources like technology, digital skills, and reseller programs. W e also partner 
with local organizations to develop cost-effective solutions for the unique 
needs of their communities.Technology
We help facilitate a “toolkit approach” to deliver cost-effective broadband 
access to rural areas which leverages a mix of technologies like T V white 
spaces, fixed wireless, and satellite coverage. For network providers, this 
technology model can reduce both the initial capital and the ongoing 
operating costs of broadband networks. 
Keeping communities connected during the COVID-19 crisis
As global communities adapt to a world with COVID-19, access to broadband 
is even more critical to our lives and livelihoods than ever before. T o keep rural 
communities without broadband access from being left behind, we’re donating 
hotspots and wireless connectivity equipment, and expanding our digital skills 
offerings with COVID-19-specific digital skills offerings for rural communities. 
We’re undertaking this work in partnership with Internet Service Providers, 
state and local governments, nonprofits such as the Public Library Association, 
the National 4-H Council, and other mission-aligned public- and private-sector 
entities.
Closing the gender digital divide 
In August, we signed an agreement with the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID) and the Women’s Global Development 
and Prosperity Initiative to work with six Airband partners on projects serving 
rural areas in Columbia, Ghana, Guatemala, India, and Kenya. The goal of the 
partnership is to reduce the persistent gender digital divide by expanding 
women’s use of the internet and to help provide women new employment and 
economic opportunities. 
Resources
Learn about the Microsoft Airband Initiative
Learn about Airband partnerships
Learn about technology models
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 9
Building skills for employability 
We must ensure every person has access to the technology, skills, and opportunity to pursue in-demand jobs in the changing economy. 
Our commitments  
and approach
We have a long-standing commitment 
to closing the skills gap. But COVID-19 
has only widened this gap: accelerating 
digital transformation as companies race 
to change the way they work to respond 
to and recover from the pandemic. It is 
why we are accelerating our investments 
in programs and partnerships that 
build foundational digital skills and 
provide access to high-quality, inclusive 
computing and computer science 
training and education.Highlights
Enable job seekers
This year, we will provide $20 million in cash grants to nonprofit organizations 
around the world that provide digital skills training for the people who need it 
most, including $5 million for nonprofits that provide digital and professional 
skills for Black and African American communities. In less than four months, the 
initiative has engaged more than 13 million learners.
Expand our reach with customers and partners
We’re working with our customers to scale our skills commitment, including 
a partnership with Grab to help more than 500,000 of its drivers in Indonesia 
and Vietnam complete digital skills training to prepare them to succeed in a 
more digital economy. In partnership with UNICEF and UNHCR, we will support 
quality education, digital skills, and improved livelihoods for displaced and 
refugee youth, especially girls and young women, in up to 20 countries  
by 2021.Close the computer science education gap in the US
We advocate for policies designed to expand access to K12 computer science 
education for all students. In the last 12 months, 28 states have adopted 42 
Microsoft-supported policies. And all 50 states now allow computer science 
classes to satisfy a core high school graduation requirement. 
Microsoft Technology Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS) connects 
classroom teachers with tech-industry volunteers to create inclusive, 
sustainable computer science programs. TEALS is powered by more than 1,500 
tech volunteers from over 650 companies. 35% of TEALS students identify as 
female and  33% identify as racial and ethnic minorities. 85,000 students have 
accessed computer science courses since TEALS inception in 2009.
Over the next five years, we will bring the TEALS Program to over 600 US high 
schools that serve primarily Black and African American students.
Resources
Learn about our resources for job seekers
Learn about our community skills grants for  
nonprofits serving Black communities
Learn more
Support inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 10
Learning the skills for in-demand 
roles: A Global Skills Initiative
Our Global Skills Initiative has reached  
13 million learners—and counting
The COVID-19 pandemic has set off job losses that exceed the scale of the Great 
Recession. At Microsoft, we quickly realized we are uniquely positioned to help. In June, 
Microsoft, LinkedIn, and GitHub launched a global skills initiative that has collectively 
reached more than 13 million learners around the globe, a significant milestone 
towards our goal of helping 25 million learners gain more digital skills for the C OVID-19 
economy. People from 231 countries and territories and all 50 states have tapped into 
the program. To further extend the reach of our offering and help groups hardest hit 
by job loss, we’re continuing to expand our partnerships with nonprofits and local 
organizations around the globe, including Black and African American-led nonprofits in 
the United States, Goodwill, Afrika Tikkun in Africa, ReDI in Germany, ITPH Academy in 
the Netherlands, the Department for Education in the UK, and Singapore Government 
agencies. In addition to our $20 million investment, our global skills intiative includes 
these commitments:
• Make data and analytics available to governments around the world so they can 
better assess local economic needs. 
• Use our voice to advocate for public policy that will advance skilling opportunities 
needed in the changed economy. 
We are committed to leveraging our range of resources to help people develop new 
digital skills and get back to work, secure a new job—or to maintain  
the job they already have. 
Learn more about our Global Skills Initiative
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 11
Empowering nonprofits worldwide 
Technology can enable nonprofit, humanitarian organizations and social entrepreneurs to be more productive, more innovative, and ultimately, to drive 
greater societal impact. 
Our commitments  
and approach
Microsoft is committed to delivering 
accessible, affordable, and relevant 
technology solutions and services to 
nonprofits, humanitarian organizations, 
and the UN and its agencies 
worldwide. Through Microsoft’s Tech 
for Social Impact, we provide Microsoft 
cloud technology as well as first-party 
sector-specific solutions to meet 
the unique needs of nonprofits. The 
Microsoft Partner ecosystem provides 
further innovation and scale, helping 
nonprofits of all sizes with sector 
specific solutions, implementation 
and migration services, and licensing 
support. Tech for Social Impact runs 
as a social investment model, where 
incremental revenue is reinvested in 
nonprofit sector innovation and social 
good causes, including affordable 
housing, skills and employability 
programs, and technology donations.Highlights
Providing donated and discounted technology and services
We provided $1.9 billion in donated or discounted technology and services to 
243,000 nonprofits globally—many serving on the front lines of COVID-19—
with modern, secure and scalable cloud technology like Microsoft 365 and 
Teams, Azure, Dynamics 365 and Power Platform, and the Common Data Model 
for Nonprofits. As part of Microsoft’s commitment to address racial injustice 
and inequity, we are offering additional support to help nonprofits that work 
with Black and African American communities increase the impact of their 
mission.
Digital skills training for nonprofit employees
We provide technical training and learning pathways through the  
Technical Literacy Learning Pathways, the Microsoft Digital Skills Center 
for Nonprofits, and more learning paths so nonprofit employees can use 
technology to accelerate their missions—reaching over 50,000 learners  
to date.Helping nonprofits digitally transform during COVID-19
As nonprofits faced remote work and fundraising challenges, we have helped 
nonprofits digitally transform for remote work, business continuity, virtual 
events and fundraising, and service delivery apps, allowing them to scale 
quickly in response to COVID-19 and other humanitarian crises.
Empowering social entrepreneurs
This year we launched the Microsoft Global Social Entrepreneurship Program 
to support social impact startups with technology, connections, and grants. The 
program offer qualified startups access to technology, education, customers, 
and grants to help them build and scale their mission-driven companies. 
Available in 140 countries, the program seeks to support underrepresented 
founders with diverse perspectives and backgrounds. We also invested in 
X4impact, the world’s first public interest technology knowledge graph 
and collaboration hub. This platform aligns social entrepreneurs, grantors, 
technologists, and citizen developers to develop solutions for the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
Resources
Learn about nonprofit offers from Microsoft
See how we are providing more cloud and tech support 
for nonprofits on the frontline of COVID-19
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 12
Promoting more equitable access to data
We believe everyone can benefit from opening, sharing, and collaborating around data to make better decisions and improve efficiency.
Our commitments and approach
We are seeing the benefits that data sharing can bring to all organizations. From climate change to the COVID-19 
pandemic, data plays a critical role in helping us understand and address major social and business challenges. But 
the reality is that data, and the AI services that it fuels, are increasingly concentrated in the hands of a small number 
of companies. So to ensure that every organization can fully realize the benefit of data, we need to build the tools 
and frameworks to share data across organizational boundaries in a way that is safe and secure.
To help unlock the potential of data, Microsoft’s Open Data Campaign focuses on three areas: 1) adopting a 
principled approach to opening data; 2) committing to deeper collaborations with others to open and share data; 
and, 3) making data sharing easier.
Microsoft has adopted five principles that will guide our contributions and commitment to trusted data 
collaborations: Open, Usable, Empowering, Secure, and Private. 
We are partnering with the Open 
Data Institute to help develop new 
data collaborations and open-up the 
learnings around tools and processes 
so that everyone is able to better 
share, use and collaborate around 
data. Additionally, together with The 
GovLab at New York University, we co-
launched the Open Data Policy Lab to 
support decision-makers at the local, 
state, and national levels to accelerate 
the responsible reuse and opening of 
data for the benefit of society.Highlights
Data collaborations
Microsoft wants to help close the “data divide” by ensuring every 
person and organization can benefit from the data economy. Through 
the Open Data Campaign we will develop 20 new data collaborations 
by 2022, partnering with nonprofits, universities, companies and 
governments to collaborate around data to address major societal 
and business challenges.
Unlocking data while respecting privacy
In collaboration with Harvard, we developed and released 
SmartNoise, a first-of-its-kind open source platform for differential 
privacy. Differential privacy makes it possible to extract useful insights 
from datasets, while safeguarding the privacy of individuals. These 
Insights have the potential to help solve the most difficult societal 
problems in health, the environment, economics, and other areas. 
Resources
Learn about our Open Data Campaign
Learn about our data collaborations
Learn about our collaboration with Harvard
Learn moreLearn more
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 13
In our hometown: Increasing our 
commitment to affordable housing
Few corners of our world escape the increasing challenges of economic disparity, including the Puget 
Sound region, home to Microsoft’s headquarters. Since 2011, jobs in the Puget Sound region have grown 
21%, while growth in housing availability has lagged at 13%. This gap has caused the median home price 
to surge 96% in the past eight years, making the Greater Seattle area the sixth most expensive region in 
the US ( source ) and contributing to housing insecurity as well as rapidly transforming the fabric of the 
community. Altogether we’ve pledged $750 million in investments and grants to accelerate the creation 
and preservation of more affordable housing in the Puget Sound region. In total this year, we allocated 
over $380 million to support the preservation or creation of over 6,750 affordable housing units in the 
Greater Seattle area. Here are some of our community partners:
• We provided a no-cost $250 million line of credit to the Washington State Housing Finance 
Commission (WSHFC) to enable it to preserve and recycle the state’s limited tax-exempt private 
activity bond volume cap. The line of credit will enable the WSHFC to finance approximately 3,000 
additional units of much-needed affordable housing.
• We will contribute $50 million to the Evergreen Impact Housing Fund, a newly launched partnership 
between Seattle Foundation and the Washington State Housing Finance Commission with support 
from JPMorgan Chase and Co., to promote the development of approximately 1,250 low-income 
housing units on the eastside of King County.
• We’ve provided a $2.5 million philanthropic grant to HomeSight’s Othello Square Project, which 
includes 192 units of affordable housing, early learning education, small business incubation, cultural 
celebration and preservation, and financial services in Seattle’s most diverse neighborhood. 
• We’ve provided a $2.5 million philanthropic grant to Rise Together, a collaborative effort between 
six nonprofit organizations to preserve their communities by creating 400 new units of low-income 
housing in Seattle’s Central District, Capitol Hill and White Center neighborhoods. 
We have tremendous gratitude for the support we’ve had from this community, and we are committed  
to ensuring our success supports the community in return.
Learn more about Microsoft’s affordable housing commitment
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 14
Protect  
fundamental rights
Whether it’s public health, environmental 
sustainability, cybersecurity, terrorist content 
online or the UN’s Sustainable Development 
Goals, we at Microsoft have found that 
progress requires two elements. We need both 
international cooperation among governments 
and inclusive initiatives that bring in civil society 
and private sector organizations to collaborate 
on solutions.Support inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 15
Defending democratic institutions 
We are using our voice and our resources to ensure others do not use technology to harm our communities, our economies, and the institutions that 
underpin our way of life.
Our commitments  
and approach
We believe technology companies have 
a responsibility to help protect our 
democratic processes and institutions. 
This responsibility requires constant 
vigilance and an effective collective 
defense against cyber-based attacks 
on candidates and voting systems, and 
disinformation campaigns against the 
public itself. Our Defending Democracy 
Program helps safeguard democratic 
processes globally from cyber-enabled 
threats by working with stakeholders 
spanning governments, non-government 
organizations, academics, political 
committees, and parties, political 
campaigns, and industry to protect 
elections around the world. The program 
works closely with product groups and 
services across Microsoft, coordinating 
efforts to improve the cyber-resilience of 
our election-related customers as well as 
other important stakeholders. In addition, 
the Defending Democracy Program 
provides trainings, programs, and 
technology to democratic stakeholders  
in over half of the world’s democracies.Highlights
Protecting campaigns
AccountGuard is a free service that notifies organizations of cyberattacks, 
tracking threat activity across email systems run by organizations as well as the 
personal accounts of its employees who opt-in. AccountGuard also includes 
access to cybersecurity training and, to date, we have trained more than 1,500 
campaign staffers and consultants in the US on cybersecurity. 
We have extended our AccountGuard threat notification service to political 
campaigns, parties and democracy-focused nonprofits in 30 countries around 
the world. It now protects more than 2 million accounts. Since the start of the 
year, we have also expanded AccountGuard to members of US Congress and 
their staff, state election officials, human rights organizations, journalists and 
media organizations, and healthcare institutions responding to the global 
pandemic.
In addition to AccountGuard, we also offer Microsoft 365 for Campaigns, 
bringing the advanced security capabilities of our Microsoft 365 Business 
offering to all federal and state political campaigns and party committees in 
the United States. Earlier this year, we announced international expansions to 
Canada and New Zealand. 
Microsoft 365 for Campaigns brings together the productivity of Office 365, 
Windows 10, Enterprise Mobility and Security and collaboration solutions 
like Microsoft Teams. These solutions offer comprehensive email, filesharing, 
collaboration, cloud storage and conference calling solutions with easy-to-
configure intelligent security and device management capabilities. 
Securing elections 
In 2019, we announced ElectionGuard, a free open-source software 
development kit (SDK) from our Defending Democracy Program.  
ElectionGuard is accessible by design and aims to make voting more secure, 
verifiable and efficient anywhere it’s used in democratic nations around the 
world. In February 2020, we conducted a successful pilot of ElectionGuard in 
a local election in Fulton, Wisconsin. Most recently, we made ElectionGuard 
available on GitHub, so that major election technology suppliers can begin 
integrating ElectionGuard into their voting systems. We also recently released Election Security Advisors, a service that brings 
Microsoft’s Detection and Response Team (DART) to election officials and 
political campaigns. The service offers both proactive security assessments  
and reactive incident response at an affordable price for political customers.
Ahead of the US 2020 elections, we collaborated with the Brennan Center for 
Justice and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) to 
deliver cybersecurity training to nearly 400 state and local election officials 
across 40 US states.
Defending against disinformation
In response to the growing challenge of disinformation online, earlier this year 
we announced two new technologies to help educate the public about the 
problem as well as new partnerships to help advance these technologies and 
educational efforts quickly. The first of these technologies, Microsoft Video 
Authenticator, is helping identify deepfakes online by analyzing a still photo or 
video to provide a percentage chance, or confidence score, that the media is 
artificially manipulated. 
The second technology will be offered through a partnership with BBC called 
Project Origin and focuses on authenticating the source of a piece of media. 
The tool will enable a content producer to add digital hashes and certificates 
to content, which can then be fed into a reader to verify over time that the 
content is authentic and has not been manipulated. 
Media literacy is an important component of building societal resilience to 
disinformation. We recently released two online quizzes to help people learn 
more about disinformation: “Know My News,” which focuses on understanding 
the credibility of news sources, and “Spot the Deepfake,” which explores 
synthetic media and deepfakes.
Resources
Learn about our Defending Democracy Program
Learn about AccountGuard
Learn about Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 16
Maintaining an ethical supply chain
When it comes to labor and human rights, we leave no doubt as to the standards we expect. Our standards apply to all our suppliers, including those at 
the farthest reaches of our supply chain.
Our commitments  
and approach
We have relationships with thousands 
of suppliers around the globe, 
spanning both hardware suppliers 
that manufacture our devices and 
components and indirect suppliers that 
provide everything from advertising 
services to building construction and 
maintenance.
We expect all suppliers who do 
business with Microsoft to uphold the 
human rights, labor, health and safety, 
environmental, and business ethics 
practices prescribed in our Supplier 
Code of Conduct. This code aligns 
with, and exceeds, the Responsible 
Business Alliance (RBA) responsible 
supply chain standards. Our Supplier 
Code of Conduct is included in all our 
supplier contracts, and Microsoft Social 
and Environmental Accountability (SEA) 
requirements are also incorporated into 
our hardware and packaging supplier 
contracts.
As a company, we will never tolerate 
violations of our standards and policies.Highlights
Social and Environmental Accountability (SEA) Academy
Microsoft’s SEA Academy is an online platform that provides training programs 
to build hardware and packaging suppliers’ capabilities to promote workers’ 
human rights and protect their occupational health and safety. W e train 
suppliers’ management, workers, and third-party auditors, as well as internal 
Microsoft teams, to increase skills and collaboration throughout the supply 
chain. The SEA Academy connects capability building for suppliers with 
targeted program strategies developed to address specific risks in different 
areas of the supply chain and deliver Microsoft SEA priorities. 
Workers’ Voice Hotline
The Microsoft Workers’ Voice Hotline provides an external channel which 
workers in our hardware and packaging supply chain can rely on to report 
workplace concerns anonymously and without fear of retaliation. W e use 
anonymous feedback from workers supplied through the Hotline to improve 
our Responsible Sourcing Program design.Supplier diversity
Microsoft has a strong and long-standing commitment to source from 
historically disadvantaged groups. Our procurement team is committed 
to increasing our spending with diverse suppliers as a part of our Supplier 
Diversity Program. In the US in fiscal year 2019, Microsoft spent nearly $4 
billion with diverse-owned businesses, continuing to place Microsoft in the top 
20 companies for diversity spending globally.
Zero tolerance of forced or bonded labor
The Microsoft Supplier Code of Conduct establishes our prohibition against  
all forms of forced labor in our supply chains. For our hardware and packaging 
supply chain, we have continued to enhance our due diligence process through 
supplier contracts, onboarding training, supplier assessment and audits, 
corrective action and verification, sub-tier management, and the W orkers’ Voice 
Hotline. Our suppliers are required to implement compliance plans to identify 
and mitigate forced labor risks. Besides risk assessment and management, 
we build understanding and capability among our suppliers and Microsoft 
employees to prevent and correct forced labor issues.
Resources
Read our Fiscal year 2020 Devices Sustainability Report
Read our commitment to anti-corruption and anti-bribery
Read about our anti-corruption policy
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 17
Providing disaster response and advancing humanitarian partnerships
Our vision is to empower humanitarian organizations and crisis-affected communities to realize the promise and potential of technology.
Our commitments  
and approach
We seek to help organizations leverage 
technology to scale the work they do 
and reach more of the beneficiaries 
they are trying to serve. Microsoft 
is uniquely positioned to support 
humanitarian organizations in their 
digital transformations to improve 
delivery of humanitarian response and 
development programming, creating 
greater resiliency in an increasingly 
challenging social and economic 
environment. We are also committed  
to mobilizing our digital skills and digital 
inclusion initiatives to crisis-affected 
communities.Highlights
Digital inclusion and livelihoods
We partner with humanitarian organizations like UNICEF with the Learning 
Passport to ensure children and young people on the move, or in humanitarian 
emergencies, can access both online and offline education to gain the skills 
they need to thrive, regardless of their location or where they are on their  
education journey. 
With UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, we partner to ensure digital skills 
and livelihood opportunities are made available for 25,000 young refugees 
and their host community in Kakuma Camp, Kenya, through the Connected 
Education Program. 
Humanitarian partnerships
We partner with global humanitarian organizations CARE and Mercy Corps  
to build Azure solutions for consolidation and analysis of global programs.
Contributing to humanitarian emergencies
In fiscal year 2020, we contributed $42 million to six humanitarian emergencies 
around the world through donations, technology, services,  
and employee giving. This included responding to COVID-19, wildfires in 
Australia and the US, and natural disasters such as Typhoon Hagibis and 
Hurricane Dorian. 
We conducted 100+ Services Disaster Response missions in 28 countries 
involving over 1,000 employees providing critical technology support and 
solutions to nonprofit, government, and international organizations. 
Combating human-trafficking
During the past year, we supported eleven organizations in deploying 
technology to increase the capacity of anti-human trafficking agencies  
and incorporate machine learning to assist humanitarian mapping.Increasing capacity
As part of AI for Humanitarian Action we worked together with the 
Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team and helped incorporate the 10 million 
building footprints in Uganda and Tanzania that are published by the Bing 
mapping team and updated their platform to support machine learning inputs.
Resources
Learn about how we support humanitarian action
Read how we are expanding access and eligibility  
to bolster impact through AI for Humanitarian Action
Learn more
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 18
Our commitments  
and approach
We believe the diversity of our 
employees is one of our greatest 
strengths and that a healthy immigration 
policy is important from a humanitarian 
perspective and as a vital engine of the 
nation’s economic growth.
In the US, Microsoft continues to 
support legislation to reform the 
immigration system so our nation 
can attract and retain skilled talent to 
help grow the US economy, including 
proposals that eliminate per-country 
limits on immigration, increase the 
number of employment-based green 
cards given in the US, improve security 
at the border, enhance the integrity of 
our nation’s immigration programs, and 
provide a path to citizenship for eligible 
individuals under the Deferred Action 
for Childhood Arrivals  
(DACA) Program. 
Advocating for immigration reform
A well-functioning immigration system is an integral part of our nation’s growth, development, and strength.
Microsoft was the only company to file a lawsuit to object to the rescission 
of the DACA Program in 2017, a case that ultimately went to the Supreme 
Court. Microsoft joined the lawsuit based on concern about the decision’s 
business and humanitarian impacts, including on our employees who are D ACA 
registrants. Alongside amicus briefs filed by hundreds of other businesses, 
educational institutions, religious organizations, and municipalities, we all stood 
together to underscore that DACA registrants are  
important to the economy and the country. Highlights
Resources
Learn about our approach to immigration reform 
Learn about our contest of the DACA rescission
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 19
Harnessing AI for cultural heritage
It’s our business to advance technology, and we believe technology should respect and help protect the world’s timeless values. That conviction has led us 
to leverage the power of AI to empower people and organizations dedicated to the preservation and enrichment of cultural heritage.
Our commitments  
and approach
Our AI for Cultural Heritage Program 
uses artificial intelligence to work 
with nonprofits, universities, and 
governments around the world to help 
preserve the languages we speak, the 
places where we live, and the artifacts 
we treasure. It builds on recent work 
we’ve pursued using various aspect of  
AI in each of these areas.
We support specific individuals and 
organizations through collaboration, 
partnership, and investment in AI 
technology and resources. 
To drive this commitment forward, we 
have committed $10 million over five 
years to expand access to Microsoft 
Azure and AI resources. We will focus 
these resources on projects across four 
core areas: people, places, languages, 
and historical artifacts.Highlights
Making art collections and archives  
more easily accessed and enjoyed
Microsoft collaborated with the estate of acclaimed Minimalist and Conceptual 
artist (and Microsoft Art Collection artist) Sol LeWitt in creating an exciting and 
immersive new app. The Sol LeWitt app will take visitors on a virtual tour of the 
artist’s studio and locations of LeWitt’s famous Wall Drawings in institutions 
throughout the world. The app can also scan a wall drawing in person and 
illuminate the process in its creation.
Preserving important monuments and sites
In France, the Musée des Plans-Reliefs brings to life the historic Mont-Saint-
Michel relief map—an example of the 17th century’s most advanced mapping 
technology—using artificial intelligence and mixed reality. We created an 
experience that uses current mapping innovations to immerse viewers in  
a vital piece of French history and culture.
Revitalizing languages through technology
As part of our ongoing efforts to preserve languages around the world, in 
Southwestern Mexico, we’re engaged in capturing and translating Yucatec 
Maya and Querétaro Otomi using AI to make them more accessible to  
people around the world. 
In New Zealand, with less than 3% of New Zealand residents speaking te 
reo Māori, Microsoft collaborated with indigenous Māori communities to 
help preserve and revitalize their language for future generations through 
Microsoft’s Neural Machine Translation (NMT) techniques and advanced 
machine learning.
Resources
Learn about AI for Cultural Heritage
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 20
Addressing racial injustice
In June, we made commitments to address racial injustice and inequity for the Black and African American community in the United S tates. We are also taking important steps  
to address the needs of other communities, including the Hispanic and Latinx community, across the company in the next five years. W e are focused on multiyear, sustained  
efforts towards:
• Increasing our representation and culture of inclusion.  We will build on our diversity and inclusion (DandI) momentum from the past five years by adding an additional $150 
million of DandI investment, and will double the number of Black and African American people managers, senior individual contributors, and senior leaders in the United S tates  
by 2025.
• Engaging our ecosystem.  We will use our balance sheet and engagement with suppliers and partners to extend the vision for societal change throughout our ecosystem, creating 
new opportunities for them and the communities they serve.
• Strengthening our communities.  We will use the power of data, technology, and partnership to help improve the lives of Black and African American citizens across our country, 
including to address the safety and well-being of our own employees in the communities in which they live.
No company can change the world by itself. But we believe Microsoft can put the power of data, technology, and partnership to work to help improve the lives of Black and African 
American citizens across our country.
Learn more about our commitment to address racial injustice
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 21
Commit to a  
sustainable future
Addressing the climate crisis is good for the 
planet and good for Microsoft. That’s why 
we’re innovating and empowering customers, 
partners, NGOs, and governments around the 
world with technology to help them set and 
achieve their own climate goals.Support inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 22
Environmental sustainability: carbon, water, waste, and ecosystems
We must address climate change for a more sustainable future.
Our commitments and approach
In 2020, Microsoft has committed to becoming a carbon 
negative, zero waste, water positive company that is building 
a new planetary computing platform to transform the way 
we monitor, model, and ultimately manage Earth’s natural 
systems. 
By 2030 we will:
• Be carbon negative by reducing our carbon emissions by half 
and removing the rest from the environment, including for our 
supply and value chains. 
• Be water positive for our direct operations, meaning we will 
replenish more water than we use.
• Be zero waste for direct operations and products, and eliminate 
single use plastics in packaging by 2025.
By 2050, we will:
• Remove from the environment all the carbon the company has 
emitted directly or by electrical consumption since its founding.
Additionally, we will: 
• Protect more land than we use for our direct operations by 2025 
and we will also build a new Planetary Computing platform to 
help monitor, model, and manage Earth’s natural systems.
• Continue to invest our $1 billion Climate Innovation Fund to 
accelerate the development of climate technologies.
• Continue our commitment in Microsoft devices, cloud hardware, 
and procurement to operate as an industry-leading Responsible 
Sourcing Program and deepen engagement with suppliers to 
ensure our emissions reductions and water targets are met.
• Use our voice to advocate for public policy initiatives that 
address climate change.Highlights
Enabling others
In addition to developing and deploying digital technology to help 
our customers, we launched the Transform to Net Zero coalition with 
eight industry leaders to help our customers and others to move from 
commitments to action, accelerating business action toward a net 
zero carbon economy by 2050.
Enabling innovation
We announced investments from our $1 billion Climate Innovation 
Fund: $50 million in Energy Impact Partners’ global platform for 
innovation of new carbon technologies; $30 million in Closed Loop 
Partners fund for waste innovation; and, $10 million in Emerald 
Technology Ventures fund to accelerate water technologies.
Microsoft Sustainability Calculator
We launched the private preview of the Microsoft Sustainability 
Calculator to help our customers measure their carbon emissions and 
meet carbon reduction goals across all three scopes of emissions and 
are hosting additional resources to help them on their journey.
Empowering our suppliers
This year, our top suppliers reduced their collective carbon footprint 
by 21 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e). 
We updated our Supplier Code of Conduct to report greenhouse 
gas emissions data as a first step to help our suppliers reduce 
their emissions. And we built an Audit Management System using 
Microsoft Power BI to embed compliance and sustainability into our 
business. Now, we can track performance and enable continuous 
supply chain improvements by tracking supplier maturity in Social 
and Environmental Accountability. We also used the Social and 
Environmental Accountability Academy (SEA) platform and Microsoft 
Teams to train 2,234 supplier employees to improve SEA management 
capabilities.Investing in renewable energy
We announced a partnership with Sol Systems, a solar energy firm, for 
500 megawatts of renewable energy and investments in communities 
disproportionately affected by environmental challenges. 
Reducing electronic waste in landfills
Through our global recycling programs, we help reduce the 
environmental impact caused by electronic waste, as well as 
protecting the data of both Microsoft and our customers, by 
collecting and recycling used electronics. Microsoft extends the life of 
used electronic equipment by partnering with Microsoft Authorized 
Refurbishers to rebuild and reuse devices to help people, businesses, 
and communities around the world embrace sustainable technology. 
More sustainable business travel
We recently announced a partnership with Alaska Airlines and SkyNRG 
to supply sustainable aviation fuel for three Alaska routes frequently 
traveled by Microsoft employees. Microsoft Teams enables employees 
to effectively meet with suppliers, customers, and other employees 
digitally, reducing carbon emissions associated with business travel. 
Resources
Read our ambitious commitments
Learn about our Climate Innovation Fund
Learn about our renewable energy  
partnership with Sol Systems 
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 23
Putting data and digital technology  
to work: The Planetary Computer
Our Planetary Computer will offer insights to help save our world.
Creating a more sustainable future requires a much deeper understanding of the species, biodiversity, 
and ecosystems that are vital to our health and prosperity. We have committed to working to use the 
architecture of the information age data, compute, algorithms, application programming interfaces, and 
end-user applications to accelerate a more environmentally sustainable future through a new kind of 
computing platform: a Planetary Computer.
This Planetary Computer will provide insights into critical questions that scientists, conservation 
organizations, and businesses already ask every day, often with no easy way to obtain a locally relevant 
answer. For example:
• Understanding the tree density, land use, and size of forests has implications for biodiversity 
conservation and climate change mitigation. The Planetary Computer will provide satellite imagery,  
state-of-the-art machine learning tools, and user-contributed data about forest boundaries from  
which forest managers will have an integrated view of forest health.
• Urban planners and farmers depend on forecasts of water availability and flood risks to make educated 
guesses about land management. The Planetary Computer will provide satellite data, local measurements 
of streams and groundwater, and predictive algorithms that will empower land planners and farmers to 
make data driven decisions about water resources.
• Wildlife conservation organizations depend on their own local surveys, global views of wildlife 
populations, and suitable habitats for wildlife. The Planetary Computer will combine information about 
terrain types and ecosystems with the best available data about where species live, enabling a global 
community of wildlife biologists to benefit from each other’s data.
• Combating climate change requires organizations to measure and manage natural resources that 
sequester carbon, like trees, grasslands, and soil. The Planetary Computer will combine satellite imagery 
with AI to provide up-to-date information about ecosystems and provide a platform for leveraging 
predictive models to estimate global carbon stocks and inform decisions about land use that impact  
our ability to address climate change.
Addressing the climate crisis is the defining issue of this decade. It requires a new depth of understanding, 
partnership, and transparency to make gains essential to preserving the health of our planet. 
Learn more about the Planetary Computer
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 24
Earn  
trust
We are optimistic about the benefits of 
technology, but also clear-eyed about the 
challenges. You can’t drive positive impact 
with technology if people don’t trust the 
technologies or the companies behind 
them. That’s why we take seriously our 
responsibility to earn trust. Without it, 
progress is not possible. Support inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 25
Respecting privacy
We recognize privacy as a fundamental human right and work to preserve our customers’ ability to control their data and make informed choices to 
protect their privacy. 
Our commitments  
and approach
Our approach to privacy and data 
protection is grounded in our belief 
that customers own their own data. Our 
privacy principles include a commitment 
to be transparent in our privacy practices, 
to offer meaningful privacy choices, 
and to responsibly manage the data 
we store and process. In addition, we 
continue to advocate for strong privacy 
laws both to ensure individuals are 
empowered with control over their data 
and transparency in how their data is 
used, and to require companies to be 
accountable and responsible for their use 
of personal data. We are committed to 
working collaboratively across industry, 
governments, educational institutions, 
and NGOs in the fight to protect privacy 
and cybersecurity for individuals and 
businesses around the globe.Highlights
Giving customers transparency and control
We were early supporters of the European Union’s General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR), and we were the first company to expand GDPR’s core 
rights to all our customers around the world. To date, more than 43 million 
people have visited our privacy tools.Preserving privacy while addressing COVID-19
It will be critical to preserve privacy as we develop and implement technical 
solutions to fight the pandemic. Earlier this year, we developed seven privacy 
principles for governments, public health authorities, academics, employers, 
and industries to consider as we collectively move forward with widespread 
tracking, tracing, and testing. These principles are designed to apply to any 
COVID-19 technological solutions that involve the collection and use of 
personal data such as health data, precise geolocation data, proximity or 
adjacency data, and identifiable contacts.
Advocating for privacy legislation and standards
We believe it is time for stronger privacy laws that provide technology 
companies with clear guardrails on how they can use data for responsible 
innovation. And whether new laws are passed or not, it is essential that 
companies develop their own strong privacy standards and assume 
accountability for how they use customers’ data. We recently outlined a 
framework of trust—both for legislative action and corporate accountability—
that begins with these four principles: Transparency, Consumer Empowerment, 
Corporate Responsibility, and Strong Enforcement.
Resources
Learn about our seven privacy principles
Learn about our approach  
to privacy and an equitable recovery
Learn more
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 26
Advancing cybersecurity
Cybersecurity is a central challenge in the digital age, and we are committed to partnering across sectors to address changing digital threats.
Our commitments  
and approach
We use our voice and our resources to 
ensure others do not use technologies 
to harm our communities, our 
economies, and the institutions that 
underpin our way of life.
Our work is grounded in partnerships 
with governments and others in industry 
and civil society to promote effective 
ways to manage security risks, including 
through effective regulation, the use 
of standards and best practices, and 
public-private partnerships. 
We employ thousands of security 
experts across 77 countries to interpret 
and expand the insights gained from 
our advanced engineering. Our Digital 
Diplomacy team seeks to promote 
digital peace and to support the global 
development and implementation 
of policies across a range of topics, 
including cyberwarfare, critical 
infrastructure security, cloud security, 
IoT security, AI security, and others.Highlights
Partnering with the multistakeholder community
Microsoft was an early proponent of The Paris Call for Trust and Security 
in Cyberspace, an agreement which promotes commitments and norms to 
protect citizens and civilian infrastructure from systemic or indiscriminate 
cyberattacks. To date, more than 75 countries, 700+ companies, and more  
than 400 civil society organizations have signed on to commitments. 
We deepened our engagement with civil society by funding the CyberPeace 
Institute, a Geneva based nonprofit focused on stability of cyberspace and 
support to communities that are most vulnerable online. We partnered with 
them to provide assistance to those at the frontlines of COVID-19 response in 
particular. 
Microsoft also continued to drive industry action through the Cybersecurity 
Technology Accord, including helping recruit over 140 global technology 
companies to sign the Accord and advance online security and resiliency 
worldwide.
Generating insights that fuel security
Microsoft analyzes more than 8 trillion signals daily and processes 630 
billion identity transactions and scans 470 billion emails for malware and 
phishing each month, generating insights that fuel security innovation for our 
customers. We use these learnings and leverage them for increased protection 
against sophisticated cyber threats.Promoting community approach to cybersecurity is critical
This year we released a new annual report, the Digital Defense R eport. In 
analyzing cybersecurity trends over a period of time, we can help strengthen 
the digital defense of Microsoft and our customers, using a combination of 
technology, operations, legal action and policy to disrupt and deter malicious 
activity. 
One example of this approach is our investment in sophisticated campaign 
clustering intelligence in Microsoft 365, which enables security operations 
center (SOC) teams to piece together these increasingly complex campaigns 
from their fragments. 
We are also trying to make it more difficult for malicious actors to operate 
online by disrupting their activities through legal action. By proactively seizing 
their malicious infrastructure, the bad actors lose visibility, capability and access 
across a range of assets previously under their control, forcing them to rebuild. 
Since 2010, our Digital Crimes Unit has collaborated with law enforcement and 
other partners on 23 malware disruptions, resulting in over 500 million devices 
rescued from cybercriminals. 
Resources
Learn about the Cybersecurity Tech Accord
Learn about the CyberPeace Institute
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 27
Strengthening digital safety 
Digital safety is a whole of society problem requiring a whole of society approach.
Our commitments  
and approach
Microsoft is committed to delivering 
our services so they are tools of 
empowerment for people and do  
not contribute, however indirectly,  
to causing harm. 
We have a responsibility to manage our 
services in a way that respects timeless 
human values, like privacy and freedom 
of expression. We are committed to 
lending our knowledge and experience 
to address illegal and harmful content, 
like child sexual exploitation, abuse 
imagery, and terrorist and violent 
extremist content.
Our collaborations across the 
technology sector and with policy 
makers and experts from civil society 
and academia are central to any 
progress we can make as a company. Highlights
Countering online child sexual exploitation and abuse
We remain resolute in our commitment to countering online child sexual 
exploitation and abuse. In line with that commitment, this year we have 
undertaken a range of activities built on new principles, partnerships,  
and technology approaches. A few examples of these activities include:
• Endorsing the Voluntary Principles to Counter Online Child Sexual 
Exploitation and Abuse through our active participation in groups such 
as WePROTECT Global Alliance and the Technology Coalition with whom 
we continue to develop new technology and partnerships to support this 
collective work.
• Joining leading technology companies in announcing Project Protect, a 
strategic vision for the future of the Technology Coalition focusing on 
technology innovation, collective action, independent research, information 
and knowledge sharing, transparency, and accountability to combat Online 
Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse.
• We released a grooming-detection technique, by which online predators 
attempting to lure children for sexual purposes can be detected, addressed, 
and reported. Developed in collaboration with The Meet Group, Roblox, and 
Kik and Thorn, this technique builds off Microsoft-patented technology and 
is freely available to qualified online service companies that  
offer a chat function. Combating terrorism and violent extremism online
We continue to take steps to eliminate terrorist and violent extremist content 
when it appears on our hosted consumer services. We invest in collaborative 
efforts and partnerships with others who are working to stem the broader  
issue of violent extremism, including being a leading proponent for the 
creation of The Christchurch Call, an initiative that brings together members 
of the technology sector, governments, and civil society to prevent technology 
from being used to promote terrorism and violent extremism online. W e were 
also one of the founding member companies of the Global Internet Forum to 
Counter Terrorism (GIFCT), whose mission is to prevent terrorists and violent 
extremists from exploiting digital platforms.
Promoting digital civility
Understanding the essential steps of internet safety to help people protect 
their devices, information, and families when they go online begins with 
research. As part of the Microsoft Digital Civility Index (DCI), in our 2020  
Digital Civility research we asked more than 12,500 teens and adults in 25 
countries to predict the tone and tenor of online behavior in the next decade. 
The underlining goal of this research is to shine a spotlight on perceived online 
risks and to encourage people to adopt more respectful online habits and 
practices. And while the DCI stands at its lowest level since the survey began 
in 2016, we are investing in ways to realize some of the positive findings in 
the research, including continuing to highlight our Digital Civility Challenge 
which promotes the adoption of positive online habits and practices through 
common-sense principles for safer, healthier, and more respectful online 
interactions. 
Resources
Learn about the Voluntary Principles to Counter Online 
Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse
Learn about the Christchurch Call to Action
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 28
Responsible AI: Putting our 
principles into practice
As artificial intelligence becomes more common in our everyday lives, it’s important that we continue 
our work to maximize its benefits and minimize any risks. Microsoft’s Office of R esponsible AI is creating 
the internal governance across our engineering and product teams needed to turn our AI principles into 
practices,  as well as using our voice to advocate for change. 
For example, facial recognition can help find a missing child or speed up border crossings, but misuse 
or bias in datasets can also lead to human rights abuses or civil liberties violations. That’s why Microsoft 
established our own internal principles  to guide the development of our facial recognition technology. 
To help our customers build and use the technology responsibly and get the best results, we developed 
a Transparency Note  for Face API to disclose the limitations and capabilities of our technology. The Face 
API Transparency Note proved so helpful that we’re now underway with preparing similar documentation 
for other products to ensure our customers fully understand their capabilities and limitations. 
On the public policy front, Microsoft’s call for government regulations  on the use of facial recognition 
helped kick off a national conversation around the use of facial recognition. Earlier this year we were 
happy to applaud Washington State  when it became the first state to establish detailed safeguards on 
how the technology should be used. The law put in place testing requirements, established transparency 
and accountability mechanisms, and offers protections for civil liberties. W e view the law as a good first 
step and a model for other states or Congress to adopt.
To build on this work, earlier this year, Microsoft also confirmed that we would not sell our facial 
recognition technology to police departments in the United States until there is a strong law, grounded 
in human rights, that establishes appropriate safeguards.
We know how challenging this work can be, and we’re committed to sharing what we learn so that others 
can adopt the practices, tools, and guidelines that we develop. W e launched a Responsible AI Resources 
Center  to make them widely available. The resources include checklists for AI fairness and guidelines 
for human-AI interaction, Conversational AI, and inclusive design. There are also tools to help build, 
understand, protect, and control AI as well as webinars and podcasts with some of Microsoft’s leading 
experts on responsible AI. 
Our goal is to enable responsible innovation, empower others, and foster positive impact through the 
use of AI. 
Learn more about our Facial Recognition principles
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 29
Empower  
our employees
We foster a workplace where everyone can 
use the power of the Microsoft platform to 
pursue their passions, fulfill their purpose, and 
empower others. Each day, we show up to make 
a difference in the world.Support inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 30
Empower our employees
Our employees are essential to fulfilling our company’s mission, and we continually strive to improve as a company through having a diverse  
and inclusive workforce. 
Our commitments and approach
To be successful as a business in empowering everyone 
on the planet, we need to reflect the world we serve. 
This is our commitment, and we have goals and 
programs to improve representation in all roles  
and at all levels. 
We expect each employee—no matter their level or 
function—to play an active role in creating inclusive 
environments where all employees can bring their 
authentic selves and contribute their best work. Further, 
we are strengthening our accountability for progress on 
representation by deepening our practice of evaluating 
each Corporate Vice-President and General Manager 
on their progress on diversity and inclusion when 
determining their impact and rewards, as well  
as promotion considerations.
We continually strive to improve as a company through 
the ideas and feedback of employees. This includes 
a process called Perspectives, which is built using 
learnings from neuroscience and social psychology and 
designed to improve how we ask for, share, and receive 
high-quality feedback to enable our growth mindset 
and strengthen our culture.
We are passionate about giving time, money, and  
skills to address the issues facing our world. It’s part  
of our culture and how we live our mission. Highlights
Activating allyship for greater inclusion
We are accelerating our cultural transformation through further 
investment in inclusion, defining it as a “core priority” for all 
employees. As part of our performance and development approach, 
every employee is encouraged to deepen their learning about 
diversity and make inclusion a daily—and personal—part of their job. 
Effective systemic change calls on employees at every level to 
consciously create inclusive experiences and environments for each 
other. Accordingly, we launched Allyship at Microsoft, a series of 
learning opportunities to become a more informed and effective ally 
through habit formation, building on ongoing conversations, insights, 
and failures, then recovery and learnings.Diversity representation from the top down 
This year’s Microsoft Diversity and Inclusion Report came at a time 
marked by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, amplified acts of racial 
injustice, and the reality of global uncertainty. Navigating this has 
required us all to ask hard questions, listen openly to the answers, 
and then face the challenges head on together. It is through this 
process, despite the discomfort, that we grow as individuals and as 
an organization. The workforce data shared in the report reflect a 
continuous five-year trend of gains in representation of women and 
racial and ethnic minorities at Microsoft. But more importantly, the 
data show us the areas where we need to do better—specifically, that 
improving representation across all levels and roles must be a priority.
Supporting our employees
We continue to build a more inclusive environment through programs 
like expanded caregiver leave, unconscious bias training, a global 
allyship program, a commitment to ongoing dialogue, and support 
for our Employee Resource Groups (ERG), which included the 
establishment of the new Indigenous at Microsoft ERG this year.
Employee giving
In fiscal year 2020, Microsoft employees donated $221 million 
(inclusive of company match) to nonprofits worldwide and 
volunteered more than 750,000 hours in the US alone. 
Resources
Read our Diversity and Inclusion Report
Read about activating allyship for greater inclusion
Learn more2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 31
Our response  
to COVID-19
Our partners and grantees make progress 
against COVID-19 every day, but there is still 
much to do to fight the disease. The great 
work being done by our partners and grantees 
emboldens us to continue working tirelessly 
against COVID-19, while also supporting and 
helping those on the front lines.Support inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 32
A global company helping address a global crisis. Response to COVID-19 is unique—strong partnership component
We are focused on providing the critical digital support needed for the world’s first responders.
Protecting public health during the pandemic
We believe advancing opportunity starts with protecting public health, an issue that 
impacts every person on the planet, transcends every border, and is critical to our ability 
to survive and thrive. Current events have only underscored that without a healthy 
society, we cannot sustain a healthy economy.
In response to the urgent health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have 
marshaled our resources to protect public health by providing tools and technology 
to those on the front lines–including health care providers and researchers–to better 
understand the virus, its transmission, treatment and potential vaccine.
A few of the specific actions we are taking include:
• Using Azure high-performance computing capabilities and our data scientists and 
Microsoft researchers to protect public health. One example of this is our expanded 
commitment to our AI for Health Program, dedicating an additional $20 million in 
funding to advance the efforts of researchers on the front lines of C OVID-19. 
• Through AI for Health we are focused on funding projects that use data to help public 
health authorities make informed and effective decisions on social distancing policies 
and healthcare capacity needs, help healthcare providers respond to the immediate 
crisis more safely and effectively, and accelerate scientific efforts to understand and 
treat COVID-19 and develop a vaccine. • We have awarded more than 150 grants through AI for Health to organizations 
tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, including:
• Duke University, selected through the White House High Performance Computing 
Consortium, whose research team is addressing the short supply of ventilators by 
developing a new technique that allows them to be split and used with multiple 
patients.
• COVID-19 Moonshot project by UCB that is leveraging Azure to screen targets and 
potential entities for research.
• Folding@home, a global organization using distributed computing to research 
COVID-19 proteins and inform new therapies.
• Helping establish and make available the COVID-19 Open Research Dataset, 
representing the most extensive machine-readable coronavirus literature collection 
available for data and text mining to date, with more than 130,000 scholarly articles. 
The aim is to aid research and discovery efforts for scientists, clinicians, and those 
working toward a solution. 
• Microsoft’s subsidiary GitHub is also hosting important data on the spread of 
COVID-19, making it easier for researchers to use and analyze this vital data.  
We also use this data to develop visualizations in Power BI to support policymakers 
around the world as well as deliver a real-time public view of the progress  
we’re making together to heal the world.
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 33
A global company helping address a global crisis. Response to COVID-19 is unique—strong partnership component
We are committed to helping governments and communities use digital technology and the power of data to respond to the immediate crisis and 
accelerate the recovery. 
Supporting the economy and recovery
Beyond protecting public health, we are working to sustain economic and societal 
activity in the short-term and promote an inclusive recovery for the long term. Our 
efforts include:
• Helping governments:  Governments across the world looked to Microsoft to help 
them move critical workloads to the cloud so that essential teams can work remotely 
in a secure and productive way using Office 365 and Microsoft Teams. For instance, in 
Germany we activated 23,000 seats off Office 365 for the federal government in just 
over a week, allowing officials to collaborate on crisis response more effectively and to 
work remotely in a secure way.
• Supporting small and medium-sized businesses:  we are providing these businesses 
with the tools they need to work remotely and continue to serve customers. This 
includes providing six months free access to the business version of Office 365, which 
includes Teams for collaboration and video conferencing around the world.
• Helping those who are impacted find new jobs: Through our global skills initiative, 
we’re committed to helping 25 million people acquire new digital skills needed for 
the changing economy. This comprehensive initiative brings together every part of 
our company, combining existing and new resources from LinkedIn, GitHub, and 
Microsoft. We are also providing $20 million in financial grants, plus technical support, 
to nonprofit organizations around the world that provide digital skills training to 
underserved communities. 
• Working to get people online: As communities around the globe adapt to a world 
with COVID-19, access to broadband connectivity is more critical to our lives and 
livelihoods than ever before, providing access to education, telemedicine and 
commerce. Through our Airband Initiative, we are working with our Airband ISP Partners to bring expanded Wi-Fi coverage to communities quickly, deploying 
hundreds of Wi-Fi hotspots in public areas with ample parking, such as fairgrounds, 
so that community members can safely access the internet while practicing social 
distancing.
• Supporting the nonprofits that are the first responders: The demands on nonprofits 
and NGOs are perhaps greater today than ever before and our Tech for Social Impact 
Program continues to help enable their digital transformation, allowing nonprofits 
to continue to serve vulnerable communities impacted by COVID-19 and helping 
many scale further to meet the unprecedented demands. Last year Microsoft put $1.9 
billion in donated or discounted technology and services—ranging from Microsoft 
365 to Power BI to Azure—in the hands of nonprofits, humanitarian organizations, 
and the UN and its agencies worldwide. In response to COVID-19, we committed to 
double our Microsoft Azure credits, increased our Windows benefits, and added new 
pro bono services to help critical care and first response nonprofits in their efforts to 
combat COVID-19. In addition, we launched free trial offers including Office 365 for 
Volunteers and Power Platforms to support critical COVID-19 response scenarios. 
• Empowering our employees: After COVID-19 forced employees to work remotely, 
essentially closing down Microsoft campuses and their services, we promised to 
continue paying our hourly employees their regular wages—whether or not their 
full services are needed—creating a financial safety net for more than 4,500 hourly 
employees. 
• Employee giving:  Microsoft employees stepped up to support nonprofits across 
the world as part of a special two month Give Together campaign. Our employees 
donated over $42.8 million, inclusive of company match, to over 10,000 nonprofits 
focused on COVID-19 response in 5,564 cities and 76 countries. 
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 34
A global company helping address a global crisis. Response to COVID-19 is unique—strong partnership component
We are providing strong protection for cybersecurity, privacy, and digital safety throughout this crisis.
Protecting customers from online threats
Individuals, businesses, schools, healthcare providers and governments are all using 
technology in new and innovative ways to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. But we 
have also seen digital threats emerge and are focused on helping tackle these challenges 
and protect our customers by: 
• Tackling COVID-19-themed threats:  A cross-company team including our Digital 
Crimes Unit (DCU), and threat intelligence teams are providing support to identify  
and tackle COVID-19-themed attacks on customers, including healthcare customers. 
As part of this Task Force, the Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit is analyzing data regarding 
cyberthreats associated with malware, phishing and fraud, and we have shared with 
the proper authorities 13,971 potentially malicious COVID-19-themed domains  
and 28,476 URLs since March so they can be taken down, and where possible,  
the individuals behind them, can be prosecuted.• Using our technology to keep people safe: In a single day, SmartScreen sees and 
processes more than 18,000 malicious COVID-19-themed URLs and IP addresses. 
Microsoft Office 365 Advanced Threat Protection prevented a massive phishing 
campaign that used a fake Office 365 sign-in page to capture credentials. R oughly 
2,300 unique HTML attachments posing as COVID-19 financial compensation 
information documents were caught in 24 hours in this one campaign.
• Protecting privacy: As people and organizations use technology to stay in new ways, 
or new solutions to the public health challenges are created, it is essential that we 
continue to ensure strong privacy protections are in place. Microsoft has advocated 
for federal privacy legislation in the US since 2005 and continues to push for action, 
including to preserve privacy while addressing COVID-19.
• Advocating for new policies:  Our Digital Diplomacy Team is working to support 
efforts by the United Nations and others for a “digital ceasefire” in nation-state 
attacks on essential infrastructure including hospitals, and a longer term “Global 
Compact” or binding prohibition to protect healthcare institutions against nation-
state cyberattacks.
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 35
Conclusion
Transparency is foundational to trust, so we provide clear information on how we run our business and how we work with customers and partners. You can 
find details on our CSR Reports Hub  covering everything from law enforcement access to data, to environmental data, details on our political activities, 
workforce demographics, and human rights. 
Learn more about our approach to corporate social responsibility and reporting
SASB Materiality Reference Index
Dimension General issue category Software and IT Services Hardware
Environment Energy managementhttps://www.microsoft.com/en-us/corporate-
responsibility/sustainability
CDP Climate Change Response 20 20
Social capitalCustomer privacyhttps://www.microsoft.com/en-us/corporate-
responsibility/privacy
Data security https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security
Human capitalEmployee engagement,  
diversity and inclusionhttps://www.microsoft.com/en-us/corporate-
responsibility/empowering-employees
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/
https://news.microsoft.com/hitrefresh/https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/corporate-responsibility/
empowering-employees
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/
https://news.microsoft.com/hitrefresh/
Business model  
and innovationProduct design and lifecycle management Devices Sustainability Report
Supply chain managementDevices Sustainability Report
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/corporate-responsibility/
responsible-sourcing
Materials sourcing and efficiencyDevices Sustainability Report
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/corporate-responsibility/
responsible-sourcing
Leadership and 
governanceCompetitive behavior https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/compliance/sbc/
Systematic risk managementShareholder Letter 2020
Proxy Statement 2020
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupport inclusive economic opportunity Commit to a sustainable future Protect fundamental rights Earn trust Empower our employees Our response to COVID-19 36
More resources
Support inclusive economic opportunity
Promoting accessibility and Inclusion
Our commitments to Accessibility
Our employees with disabilities
How grantees are making impact
How we work with designers and  
engineers to build inclusive products
Accessibility Evolution Model
Disability Answer Desk and resources
How Microsoft is shrinking the data desert
Closing the broadband gap
Airband partnerships
Technology models
Our work during COVID-19
Annual update on connecting rural America
Our digital gender equity partnership
Building skills for employability
Our resources for job seekers
Our community skills grants for nonprofits  
serving Black and African American communities
Our partnership with Grab
Our efforts to increase access to computer science
Microsoft TEALS
Empowering nonprofits worldwide
Tech for Social Impact
Providing more cloud and tech support  
for nonprofits on COVID-19 frontline
Global Social Entrepreneurship Program
Promoting more equitable access to data
Open Data Campaign
Our data collaborations
Our collaboration with HarvardProtect fundamental rights
Defending the democratic institutions
Defending Democracy Program
ElectionGuard
AccountGuard
Microsoft 365 for Campaigns
Our work combatting disinformation
Take the Spot the Deepfake Quiz
Take the Know My News Quiz
Maintaining an ethical supply chain
FY 2020 Devices Sustainability Report
Our commitment to anti-corruption and anti-bribery
Our anti-corruption policy
Our Supplier Code of Training
Supplier diversity at Microsoft
Providing disaster response and  
advancing humanitarian partnerships
How we support humanitarian action
Expanding access and eligibility to bolster impact  
through AI for Humanitarian Action
Advocating for immigration reform
Our approach to immigration reform 
Our contest of the DACA rescission
The oral arguments at the Supreme Court
Commit to a sustainable future
Environmental sustainability:  
carbon, water, waste and ecosystems
Our ambitious commitments
Climate Innovation Fund
Our renewable energy partnership with Sol Systems
Our partnership with Alaska Airlines on sustainable aviation fuel
Transform to Net Zero coalition
Microsoft Sustainability Calculator
Other resources
Devices Sustainability Report
Environmental Compliance for Devices and PackagingHarnessing AI for cultural heritage
Learn about how AI is helping revitalize a language
Earn Trust
Respecting privacy
Our seven privacy principles
Our approach to privacy and an equitable recovery
Advancing cybersecurity
Cybersecurity Tech Accord
CyberPeace Institute
Cyber Defense Operations Center
Digital Defense Report
Protecting people from digital threats
Critical steps for securing cyberspace
Combat ransomware ahead of US elections
Cyberattacks targeting US elections
Legal action against COVID-10 cybercrime
Strengthening digital safety
Voluntary Principles to Counter Online  
Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse
Christchurch Call to Action
2020 Digital Civility Report
Digital Civility Challenge
Responsible AI
Putting AI principles into practices
Our responsible AI principles
Transparency Note  for Face API
Call for government regulations
Facial recognition progress in Washington state
Responsible AI Resources Center
Empower our employees
Diversity and Inclusion Report
Activating allyship for greater inclusion
Our global Diversity and Inclusion commitments
Our inclusive approach to hiring
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility ReportMicrosoft.com/CSR
2020 Microsoft Corporate Social Responsibility Report