2019Annual  ReviewStryker | 2019 Annual Review  Stryker’s technology  improves outcomes for  patient and physician On the day oncoplastic surgeon Dr. Anne  Peled was getting ready to perform  a double mastectomy and breast  reconstruction, her phone rang.
She  wasn’t thinking about her own health,  but the news was grim — the disease she  spent her life treating had found her.
“I was so shocked,” says Dr. Peled, a  38-year-old vegetarian triathlete who  suspected the lump she discovered, and  had biopsied, was just a cyst.
“There  were no words, even though I tell  women about breast cancer diagnoses  many times a week.
I had to remind  myself what I tell my patients — that  this is very treatable and, in many   cases, curable.”  With her knowledge and experience,  she was able to put together “an  amazing team of caring and talented  clinicians who really listened to me  and what I wanted,” including her  parents, who are radiation oncologists,  and sister, a medical oncologist.
“I felt  incredibly grateful for the care and  support I received, and I got through  my treatment smoothly and relatively  easily” — thanks, in part, to the type of  hidden scar surgery she performs on her  own patients.Getting back to feeling  whole During surgery, big scars can appear at  the cancer site, many times in highly  visible locations.
While some women  may see their scars as an empowering  symbol, many do not.
Research shows  that breast surgery scars may impact a  woman’s psychological and emotional  well-being, as well as quality of life   after surgery.This is where Stryker comes in  with a growing women’s health and  breast cancer portfolio.
Case in point:  Stryker’s illuminated instruments for  hidden scar surgery, which can be  used for everything from skin sparing  mastectomies to breast-conserving  procedures (lumpectomy) to total  reconstruction.
With the help of this technology, breast  and plastic surgeons can minimize  scarring with access and visualization  to achieve optimal surgical and  aesthetic outcomes, which help women  move forward feeling more whole  and empowered — and without seeing  reminders of the cancer every day.
“Stryker’s illuminated instrument  technology makes a huge difference in  performing hidden scar techniques,”  says Dr. Peled.
“I believe it’s safer and  more efficient than other products on  1.
Gass J, et al.
How do breast cancer surgery scars impact survivorship?
Findings from a nationwide  survey in the United States.
BMC Cancer (2019) 19:342.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12885-019-5553-0.
Accessed 10/2019.When the breast   cancer surgeon  becomes the patient, expertise, emotions  and empathy come  togetherStryker | 2019 Annual Review  3the market, with superior design and  quality.
And patients look as good, if not  better, than before, so they can more  easily move past treatment.” “This technology provides surgeons  access and visualization during surgery  to achieve optimal surgical and aesthetic  outcomes, including minimally invasive  surgeries,” says Charles Henkel, Stryker  Sales Manager, Surgical Technologies.
Moving on with life and  career As an advocate of hidden scar  surgery — as well as a new procedure  she developed with her husband, plastic  surgeon Ziv Peled, to preserve nerve  sensation in the breast — Dr. Peled travels the country to train colleagues in  the surgical technique she experienced  as a patient.
She also talks about the  technique on social media and invites  surgeons to come to her practice to  watch and learn.
Dr. Peled has found that sharing her  story can be especially helpful for her  younger patients, because the fears,  challenges and decision-making around  breast cancer can be very different than  for older women, and peer support can  be even more important.
“I can share ‘insider tips’ on getting  through the care,” she explains.
“Many  patients who know about my own  diagnosis will reach out to ask questions  about my experience as they go through  “ I had to remind myself what I tell my  patients —  that this is very treatable  and, in many cases, curable.” — Dr. Anne Peledtheir treatment, and I love the way  this connects me to them in a totally  different way.” With colleagues, Dr. Peled has learned  to carefully draw from her personal  experience to make productive, patient- focused suggestions, which she believes  may carry some weight.
“ As I settle into these dual and  simultaneous roles of breast cancer  surgeon and breast cancer survivor,  I’m gradually balancing the interplay  of these parts of myself into my  relationships with both patients and  colleagues,” she says.
“For now, I take it  one interaction at a time and bask in the  deeply connecting moments of shared  understanding when they happen.” Charles Henkel Stryker Sales Manager,   Surgical TechnologiesSYK 2019 Annual Review  022317  SYK_AR19_v14  03/17 /20  page “ Patients look as good, if not   better than before, so they can  more easily move past treatment.” — Dr. Anne PeledStryker | 2019 Annual Review  SPY Fluorescence: improving visualization  in breast reconstruction When two of her sisters had breast  cancer, 51-year-old Barbara Pink, the  baby of the family, was aware that she  might be next, knowing that women  with “first degree” relatives with breast  cancer are at an increased risk.
Barbara learned about her diagnosis  following a mammogram.
“Because of  my sisters, I wasn’t shocked,” Barbara  says.
“I was around the same age as they  were when they were diagnosed.”  But with an aggressive form of breast  cancer, Barbara made the decision  to get a bilateral mastectomy and  bilateral breast reconstruction, an  increasingly common choice for many  women.
In fact, the number of breast  cancer patients opting for implant  reconstruction after a mastectomy has  increased by two-thirds.1  Barbara’s plastic surgeon, Dr. Charles  Kays, from Wilmington Plastic Surgery,  in Wilmington, North Carolina, says the  number of cases where the mastectomy  and implant reconstruction are done  at one time, rather than two separate  surgeries, is also becoming more common.
“There’s a lot of emotional trauma to  having your breasts removed and not  completing your reconstruction at the  time of surgery.
When we perform both  at the same time, patients are relieved  to get the procedure over with and their  overall recovery is shorter,” he says.Dr. Kays took advantage of Stryker’s  innovative SPY fluorescence imaging  technology during the complicated  operation.
With SPY fluorescence, surgical  teams can better visualize anatomy and  blood flow in vessels and related tissue,  which may improve outcomes in the  operating room.After the surgery, Barbara was up and  around in just a few days and fully back  in action after only four weeks.
“I was  thrilled and my sisters were thrilled,” says  Barbara.
“I had amazing care, and I’m just  so happy to move ahead with my life.” 1.
U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality 2009.
2.
SPY clinical bibliography available upon request.Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  Dear   shareholders, “ We had an excellent year in 2019,  as we reached 40 consecutive  years of sales growth.” — Kevin Lobo  Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerWe had an excellent year in 2019, as we  reached 40 consecutive years of sales growth  and recorded our seventh consecutive year  of accelerated organic sales growth.
We also  posted strong adjusted net earnings per share  and continued to execute on our strategy of  customer focus, innovation, globalization and  cost transformation.
Culture and leadership The bedrock of our company is our  mission —  Together with our customers, we  are driven to make healthcare better —  and  values: Integrity, Accountability, People and  Performance.
We hire people who are driven,  team-oriented and humble.
We continue to be  regarded as a great place to work (see page 16)  and are honored by the accolades that reflect  our inclusive culture.
We’re pleased to have  been rated #1 best workplace for diversity in  the U.S. by Fortune and Great Place to Work.We will have one change to our Board  of Directors as Louise Francesconi has  announced that she will not stand for  re-election in May 2020.
Louise has made  strong contributions during her 14 years on  our Board and we thank her for her dedicated  service (see page 20).
Financial performance Our U.S. and international organic sales  growth were both 8.1 percent, with strong  international performances in emerging  markets and Europe.
Reported sales growth  was 9.4 percent, including 2.6 percent growth  from acquisitions and 9.0 percent growth  from increased unit volume, which was  partially offset by a 1.3 percent impact from  foreign exchange and a 0.9 percent impact  from lower prices.Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  7results for our employees, customers,  communities and the planet.
Reflecting on our 2019 accomplishments,  I would like to thank our management  teams, our Board of Directors and our  roughly 40,000 employees worldwide  who live our mission and values every  day.
Our strategy, people and culture  will enable us to continue to deliver  strong performance in the years ahead.
Kevin A.
Lobo Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on track to roll it out to our other  businesses across the world over the  next few years.
We also made significant  progress with our finance shared  services, including starting up a center  in Costa Rica, and continued to drive  improvements within our supply chain.
Community We are working to improve healthcare  responsibly and sustainably because  we believe the health of the world is as  important as the people who live in it.
Our activities and progress are outlined  in our Corporate Responsibility Review,  which is available on our website.
We  are committed to delivering positive  Our cash position remains strong  with a year-end cash and marketable  securities position of $4.4 billion,  enabling us to increase our dividend rate  by 10.6 percent for the January 2020  payment.
Our reported net earnings  decreased 41.4 percent, largely due to  tax benefits in 2018, and our adjusted  net earnings grew by 13.0 percent.
Innovation We continue to drive innovation through  R&D and acquisitions with a steady  stream of new product introductions  and closed several deals in the year.
In addition, we signed a definitive  agreement to acquire Wright Medical for approximately $5.4 billion (including  convertible debt), which is expected to  close in the second half of 2020.
This  acquisition should add nearly $1 billion  of revenue to our fast-growing Trauma  & Extremities business.
Cost transformation We remain committed to systematically  reducing costs to enable growth.
We  were pleased to deliver 40 basis points  of adjusted operating margin expansion  in 2019 despite significant dilution  from acquisitions.
We successfully  implemented a large-scale enterprise  resource planning (ERP) deployment  at our Instruments division and are Billions 2019$14.9B $0$1$2$3$4$5$6$7$8$9$10$11$12$13$14$15History of net sales growth Straight years of   sales growth 16.2% CAGR in net sales   over 40-year   periodStryker | 2019 Annual Review  2019 acquisitions:   growth opportunities and   market-leading  innovations  With a disciplined approach, Stryker strategically acquires  businesses and integrates them quickly to accelerate long-term  growth opportunities in both existing and new segments of  our industry.
In 2019, we completed four acquisitions that will  bring innovative and complementary products to our portfolio  and strengthen our market leadership.
Arrinex Based in Menlo Park, California, Arrinex developed ClariFix, a novel  cryoablation technology for the treatment of chronic rhinitis.
This  condition, which affects more than 24 million people in the U.S. each  year, may cause runny nose, congestion, sneezing and nasal itching.
ClariFix complements and further expands Stryker’s Ear, Nose and  Throat (ENT) portfolio with a unique product that meets the needs of a  large, underpenetrated segment of the ENT market where we have not  competed previously.
As a result, ENT physicians have new technologies  that deliver more treatment options and better patient outcomes.Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  OrthoSpace With the acquisition of Israel-based OrthoSpace,  we have added to our sports medicine portfolio a  highly differentiated technology for the treatment  of massive rotator cuff tears.
Called InSpace, the  product is a biodegradable sub-acromial spacer,  which is designed to realign the natural biomechanics  of the shoulder.
InSpace has a clinical history of more  than 20,000 patients being treated in 30 countries  and provides our customers an innovative surgical  option to address a complex pathology.
The InSpace  device is currently investigational and not approved  for sale in the U.S. and limited by Federal law to  clinical investigational use.Mobius Imaging and   Cardan Robotics With expertise in advanced imaging and robotics, as  well as a robust product pipeline, Mobius Imaging  and Cardan Robotics will strengthen our presence in  our key Orthopaedics, Spine and Neurotechnology  markets.
As a result, we are positioned to make  healthcare better by providing more complete  procedural solutions, including sales, service, and  support, while helping surgeons achieve the best  possible outcomes for their patients.
SafeAir This Swiss medical device company designs, develops  and manufactures innovative surgical smoke evacuation  products that help reduce staff and patient exposure  to hazards associated with surgical smoke.
Highly  complementary to our Surgical Technologies business,  SafeAir products strengthen our existing smoke evacuation  portfolio in both the U.S. and Europe and align with our  goal of providing better care and a higher level of safety  for both healthcare professionals and patients.
Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  Mako expands reach  in Asia Pacific Thanks to its demonstrated accuracy  and precision1–5 and a concerted  marketing effort, Mako enjoyed  significant growth in Asia Pacific in  2019.
Two key reasons for this growth  were the acceleration of China’s Mako  Total Hip joint replacement business  since it was introduced in 2018, and the  2019 launch of Mako Total Hip and Total  Knee in Japan.
In both of these large markets, Stryker  emphasized clinical evidence, training  and education, and media awareness  to support this growth.
“Because we  have been helping surgeons to know  more about a patient’s unique anatomy  with Mako SmartRobotics™ CT-based  planning, and accurately and precisely1–5  cut less6–10 with AccuStop™ haptic  technology, healthcare professionals are  welcoming Mako with open arms,” says  Christopher Roger, Director, Robotics  Sales and Support, Japan.
In both countries, the number of  Mako systems and procedures has  increased significantly.
In Japan, for  example, the growth opportunities  are considerable.
Approximately  60,000 total hip replacements  and 82,000 total knee and partial  knee replacements are performed  annually,11 with the number  expected to increase due to the aging  population.
Stryker has sponsored  trainings and participated in surgical  conferences and events in Asia  Pacific to educate surgeons on the  use of Mako technology.
A Mako media day in Japan, which  focused on innovations in joint  replacement surgeries, resulted in  local and industry news stories that  reached more than 30 million people.
See references on page 21.©Kobe Kaisei Hospital“ In my experience, Mako Total Hip  has shown better outcomes after  surgery compared to arthroplasty  performed manually.1”   — Dr. Nao Shibanuma,   Deputy Medical Director,  Kobe Kaisei Hospital  The first hospital to install Mako in JapanStryker | 2019 Annual Review  Making   healthcare better   with medical educationAlong with our commitment to  delivering innovative and industry- leading technology, Stryker provides  extensive medical education and training  offerings for healthcare professionals.
These offerings are designed to help  advance product and procedural  knowledge and skills, improve customer  competence and confidence, and lead to  better patient outcomes.
Here are some  highlights from across the company: Craniomaxillofacial (CMF) Our CMF medical education programs  include national, regional and local  courses for neurosurgeons and  craniomaxillofacial surgeons who  perform trauma, reconstructive and  orthognathic (jaw) surgery.
Many  courses include a cadaveric component  taught by surgeons who are leaders  in their field, providing an elevated,  hands-on experience for attendees.
We  also emphasize personalized medicine  through education on the use of virtual  surgical planning and other patient- specific surgical solutions that support  improving patient outcomes.
On-demand  education is also offered online through  our surgical video library.
Endoscopy With our industry-leading SPY imaging  technology, we established a training  program to help drive the adoption  of fluorescence as a standard of care.
Our popular iSPIES program covers colorectal, uro-gynecological, pediatric  cardiovascular and cardiothoracic  procedures.
From symposiums to  clinical immersion, we offer customized  education, including a fellows  textbook program and courses, surgery  observation programs and regional  trainings so surgeons can avoid travel.
Joint Replacement A wide variety of programs are available  for joint replacement surgeons,  including the highly attended Mako  System Certification program.
During  this comprehensive hands-on program,  surgeons must successfully complete  two cadaveric joints with each Mako  application in order to be certified to  perform Mako procedures.
Other in- demand educational offerings are our  Virtual Surgical Demos and Observations  live events, broadcasted to surgeons and  OR staff, in which Mako robotic-arm  assisted procedures are demonstrated.
We also have surgical simulations on  both the Mako Partial Knee and Mako  Total Knee, which allow surgeons to  practice intra-operative balancing at  their own pace.
Neurosurgical  In our Stryker Training Center in Salt  Lake City, Utah, neurosurgery residents  can take the Neurotechnology National  Course, drawing on the wisdom of world- renowned faculty members.
2019 marked  the first annual cross-divisional program Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  that covered our entire Neurotechnology  portfolio, including Spine, Interventional  Spine, Neurosurgical, CMF and  Neurovascular.
We also offer a hands-on  National OR Professional Workshop for  operating room directors, coordinators,  RNs, scrub techs and sterile processing  professionals.
In 2019 our Mobile Lab,  which simulates eight operating rooms,  hosted 140 events across the country.
Neurovascular Stroke Knowledge Initiatives for  Learning and Leadership (SKILL) is a  series of innovative, tailored ischemic  and hemorrhagic stroke education  programs that support our customers’  need to address patient management  challenges with the ultimate shared  goal of improving lives.
SKILL features  an e-lab, NeuroElite fellows program,  training center initiatives and global  centers of excellence.
Orthopaedic Instruments  and Surgical Technologies Through Stryker’s Learn Program,  operating room professionals have  access to industry resources designed  to enhance the understanding and  use of various medical technologies.
With programs based on extensive  research findings and practical industry  knowledge, we are dedicated to  empowering and advancing healthcare  providers at every stage of their career.Trauma & Extremities TEACH programs (Trauma and Extremities  Academic Courses for Healthcare) include training  on the effective use of Stryker products in Trauma,  Shoulder and Foot and Ankle for the orthopaedic  surgeon community, which consists of nurses,  residents and fellows, as well as practicing surgeons.
TEACH faculty are invited by Stryker to attend a  program educating them on Advanced Training  Principles to enhance their teaching skills, ultimately  contributing to the quality of the TEACH programs.
Launched in 2019, the Connect program provides  educational resources to residents at teaching  institutions and continues as they transition into  fellowship and practice.
New initiatives such as  digital learning platforms and cross-divisional  dissection courses were introduced to expand  Stryker’s educational resources for residents and  fellows at teaching institutions.
Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  Corporate   Responsibility At Stryker, corporate responsibility  is an important part of who we  are —  as individuals, teams and one  connected company.
Driven by our  shared values, it’s built into the way  we operate our company.
Our mission  is to improve healthcare by working  with our customers to make the  world better for patients, caregivers,  employees and the environment.
Learn more about our commitment  to people and the planet in our  Corporate Responsibility Review at  stryker.com/CR  surgeries funded through  our Smile Match campaign  where employee donations to  Operation Smile are matched  until we reach our goal.Investing in people for stronger health, safety,  talent and inclusion  709+ 2019 achievements   through our key focus areasStryker | 2019 Annual Review  because transparency,  honesty and fairness  should always be  paramount Ethics and  accountability In 2019, our Board amended  our bylaws to implement  proxy access.
This permits a  shareholder or a group of up  to 20 shareholders owning at  least 3 percent of Stryker’s  common stock for at least three  years, to nominate and include  in Stryker’s proxy materials  director nominees constituting  up to the greater of two  individuals or 20 percent  of the Board.Addressing the need for  compliant medical waste  disposal systems, Cactus Smart  Sink System securely captures  partially administered or  unused controlled substances  and renders them non- retrievable and unusable.
The system helps reduce  drug diversion and improve  patient safety while also  reducing the impact on the  environment.Product lifecycle  innovationResource efficiency carefully considering our  use of materials across a  product’s lifecyclereducing water, waste and  emissions spent with minority, women, and  veteran-owned businessessaved by customers through  reprocessing programs spent with small businessespounds of waste diverted  from landfills Responsible   supply chains managing and sourcing  suppliers with the highest  standards $225M$375.6M $700M13.4M Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  Diversity and inclusion:   we win together as a team  At Stryker, we win together as a team.
Our mission and values unite employees  around a diverse and inclusive culture  that delivers remarkable results.
And we  create and invest in programs that foster  a positive workplace experience.
Here  are some of our recent activities and  programs: Annual engagement   survey “We constantly challenge ourselves  to achieve more by listening to our  employees’ suggestions and taking  action to improve our workplace,”  says Cindy Carlisle, Vice President,  Talent Management and Corporate HR.
“For more than 25 years, we’ve used  our annual company-wide employee  engagement survey to uncover and take  action on important issues affecting our  work environment.” Unconscious bias training Unconscious biases exist even in  the most open-minded people and  organizations.
We address this  proactively through our Think Twice  course, a workshop that showcases what  bias is, how and where it shows up,  and what to do about it.
Since launch,  more than 4,000 employees across  16 countries have participated in the  training, including our CEO and our  entire senior leadership team.
Focus groups To enhance our efforts to build an  inclusive, engaging work environment,  we partnered with a global management  consortium to conduct conversations with  employees aimed at expanding existing  initiatives.
“ Attendees provided their  insights and pointed out opportunities to increase our diverse talent pipeline,”  says Cindy Carlisle.
“We used their  feedback to develop an actionable set  of recommendations to enhance our  Diversity and Inclusion strategy.” Diversity and Inclusion  conference To continue strengthening employee  engagement, we host inclusion  conferences.
Our annual inclusion  awareness conference, for example,  brings together leaders and employees  from our five campuses in Kalamazoo,  Michigan.
This full-day conference  focuses on why inclusion matters and  equips participants with tools to build a  more inclusive environment.Disabilities program in  Ireland  Patrick O’Brien, an associate at  Stryker’s Anngrove facility in Cork,  recalled a former co-worker at a  previous job who faced some tough  employment challenges because he  was deaf.
So Patrick got involved  in developing a Stryker team under  the name of ABLE — the Ability and  Belief to Leverage Everyone.
And  over the past two years, the team  accomplished a great deal, including: • Hiring individuals with hearing  impairments • Installing pocket-sized vibrating  alarm systems for hearing- impaired people  • Modifying entranceways, desks,  coffee stations and dining tables  for people in wheelchairs • Working with the local university  on a mentorship program for  students with disabilities Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  Best Workplaces   International #1 for Australia, 2019   recipient for the sixth consecutive year Mexico, 2019   recipient for the sixth timeFORTUNE Best  Workplaces (U.S.) For Diversity, 2019   #1 out of 100 companies — recipient for  the third consecutive year For Women, 2019  #47 — recipient for the third time Best Workplaces  in Europe #14  recipient for the first timeFORTUNE 500   Largest U.S.-Based   Companies #233 in 2019  joined the list in 2003  — recipient for  the 17th consecutive yearFORTUNE 100  Best Companies to  Work For (U.S.) #8 in 2020  recipient for the tenth   consecutive yearFORTUNE World’s  Best Workplaces #8 in 2019  out of 25 companies —   recipient for the third time Women’s Choice Awards 2020 awards   named to two lists:  100 Best Workplaces for Women  Best Companies for DiversityGlobal   recognition Italy, 2019   recipient for the first time Spain, 2019  recipient for the fourth time UK, 2019  recipient for the first time  Brazil, 2019  recipient for the sixth consecutive year Canada, 2019  recipient for the tenth consecutive year Greater China, 2019  recipient for the third year France, 2019  recipient for the second consecutive year Japan, 2019  recipient for the second consecutive year Korea, 2019  recipient for the second consecutive yearFORTUNE World’s   Most Admired   Companies #5 in 2020  Medical Products and Equipment   recipient for the 18th consecutive yearStryker | 2019 Annual Review  172.004.006.008.0010.2019 20145.2.004.006.008.0010.2019 20148.0.51.01.52.02.2019 20142.08Adjusted net earnings $ Per diluted share Dividends paid $ Per share of common stockNet earnings $ Per diluted shareFinancial overview ($ in millions, except per share amounts)Financial   highlights 2019 2018 % Change Net sales $14,884 $13,601 9.4% Earnings before income taxes  2,562 2,356 8.7% Income taxes  479 (1,197) NM Net earnings  2,083 3,553 (41.4)% Adjusted net earnings1 3,139 2,779 13.0% Net earnings per diluted share  of common stock   Reported  $5.48 $9.34 (41.3)%   Adjusted1 8.26 7.31 13.0% Dividends paid per share of  common stock $2.08 $1.88 10.6% Cash, cash equivalents and  marketable securities 4,425 3,699 19.6% 1.
Adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share are non-GAAP  financial measures.
Refer to page 21 for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable  GAAP financial measures, net earnings and net earnings per diluted share.
NM = Not MeaningfulStryker | 2019 Annual Review    Orthopaedics   14%7% 15% 14% 13% 2% 12%11%9%3%Medical and Surgical (M edSurg)  Neurotechnology and Spine  Leading   in medtech 12% Knees 11% Trauma & Extremities  9% Hips  3% Other35%Orthopaedics15% Medical 14% Instruments 13% Endoscopy  2% Sustainability Solutions44%MedSurg 14% Neurotechnology   7% Spine21%Neurotechnology   and Spine $14.9B in global salesStryker | 2019 Annual Review  (In order of appearance in photo, left to right) Kevin A.
Lobo   Chairman and   Chief Executive Officer   Glenn S.
Boehnlein   Vice President,   Chief Financial Officer   Robert S.
Fletcher   Vice President, Chief Legal Officer   Viju S.
Menon   Group President,   Global Quality and Operations   Yin C.
Becker   Vice President,   Communications,   Public Affairs and   Corporate Marketing   Timothy J.
Scannell   President and   Chief Operating Officer   J.
Andrew Pierce   Group President, MedSurg  and NeurotechnologyDivision Presidents Businesses Xavier M.
C.
Berling   Trauma & Extremities   Dylan B.
Crotty   Instruments   Brent W.
Ladd   Endoscopy   Eric D.
Major   Spine   Mark H.
Paul   Neurovascular   Donald E.
Payerle Joint ReplacementOther Officers Dean H.
Bergy    Vice President,  Corporate Secretary William E.
Berry Jr.    Vice President,  Corporate Controller Jeanne M.
Blondia   Vice President,   Finance and Treasurer Irene B.
Corbe   Vice President,  Internal Audit William J.
Cymbaluk    Vice President, Corporate  Regulatory Affairs and  Quality Assurance David G.
Furgason    Vice President, Tax Jody K.
Powell Vice President,  Global RAQA Bronwen R.
Taylor    Vice President,  Compliance and Risk  ManagementRegions Maurice Ben-Mayor   South Pacific   Silvia L.
F.
Braga   Latin America   Dragana Bunjevac   Eastern Europe,   Middle East, Africa   Scott A.
MacNair   Canada Graham A.
McLean   Asia Pacific  Leadership   team Spencer S.
Stiles   Group President,   Orthopaedics and Spine   M.
Kathryn (Katy) Fink   Vice President,   Chief Human Resources Officer   Katherine A.
Owen   Vice President,   Strategy and Investor RelationsBradford L.
Saar   Medical   Brian J.
White   Sustainability Solutions Hiroyuki Saeki   Japan   Stuart A.
J.
Silk   Europe, Middle East,  Africa, Latin America,  CanadaStryker | 2019 Annual Review  (In order of appearance in photo, left to right) Louise L.
Francesconi ‡ §  Rajeev Suri  **   Ronda E.
Stryker §  Mary K.
Brainerd **  Chairman Emeritus John W.
Brown   Former Chairman, President and   Chief Executive Officer  Director Emeritus Howard E.
Cox, Jr.Board of   DirectorsWith appreciation Louise L.
Francesconi We want to express our gratitude and  appreciation to Louise Francesconi who  has served as a director on our board  since 2006.
Louise has made strong  contributions to our strategy and growth  during her 14 years on our board and  successfully hired many new board  members as chair of the governance  and nominating committee since 2007.
We sincerely thank Louise for her  dedication and service.
* Chairman of the Board  † Lead Independent Director ** Audit Committee  ‡ Compensation Committee  §  Governance and Nominating CommitteeAndrew K.
Silvernail  **  Allan C.
Golston † **   Srikant M.
Datar, Ph.D. ‡ §  Roch Doliveux, D.V.M.  ‡ §   Sherilyn S.
McCoy ‡ §  Kevin A.
Lobo *Stryker | 2019 Annual Review  21Refer to our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, available at stryker.com, for additional information regarding our non-GAAP financial measures.Reconciliation of the Most Directly Comparable GAAP Financial Measure to Non-GAAP Financial Measure Net earnings ($ millions) Net earnings per diluted share 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Reported $515 $1,439 $1,647 $1,020 $3,553 $2,083 $1.34 $3.78 $4.35 $2.68 $9.34 $5.Acquisition and integration-related charges Inventory stepped-up to fair value 15 4 23 20 9 51 0.04 0.01 0.06 0.05 0.02 0.Other acquisition and integration-related 50 20 77 31 90 160 0.13 0.05 0.20 0.09 0.24 0.Amortization of purchased intangible assets 133 147 221 250 338 375 0.35 0.39 0.59 0.67 0.89 0.Restructuring-related and other charges 78 97 98 155 179 180 0.20 0.26 0.26 0.41 0.47 0.Medical device regulations – – – – 10 48 – – – – 0.03 0.Recall-related matters 628 210 127 131 18 154 1.65 0.55 0.34 0.34 0.05 0.Regulatory and legal matters – (46) (7) 25 141 (33) – (0.12) (0.02) 0.06 0.37 (0.09) Tax matters 391 78 8 833 (1,559) 121 1.02 0.20 0.02 2.19 (4.10) 0.Adjusted $1,810 $1,949 $2,194 $2,465 $2,779 $3,139 $4.73 $5.12 $5.80 $6.49 $7.31 $8.Effective Tax Rate — Reported 55.6% 17.1% 14.3% 50.6% (50.8)% 18.7% Effective Tax Rate — Adjusted 22.3% 17.3% 17.3% 15.6% 16.7% 15.8% Weighted average diluted shares outstanding 382.8 380.9 378.5 380.1 380.3 379.References from page 1.
Illgen R, Bukowski B, Abiola R, Anderson P, Chughtai M, Khlopas A, Mont M.
Robotic-assisted total hip  arthroplasty: Outcomes at minimum two year follow up.
Surgical Technology International.
2017 July 25; 30:365-372.
2.
Kayani B, Konan S, Tahmassebi J, Pietrzak JRT, Haddad FS.
Robotic arm assisted total knee arthroplasty  is associated with improved early functional recovery and reduced time to hospital discharge compared  with conventional jig-based total knee arthroplasty: a prospective cohort study.
The Bone and Joint Journal.
2018;100-B:930-7.
3.
Kleeblad LJ, Borus T, Coon T, Dounchis J, Nguyen J, Pearle A.
Midterm survivorship and patient satisfaction of  robotic-arm assisted medial unicompartmental knee arthroplasty: a multicenter study.
The Journal of Arthroplasty.
2018:1-8.
4.
Anthony I, Bell SW, Blyth M, Jones B, et al.
Improved accuracy of component positioning with robotic-assisted  unicompartmental knee arthroplasty.
J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2016;98-A(8):627-35.
5.
Mahoney O, Kinsey T, Mont M, Hozack W, Orozco F, Chen A.
Can computer generated 3D bone models improve  the accuracy of total knee component placement compared to manual instrumentation: a prospective multi- center evaluation?
International Society for Technology in Arthroplasty 32nd Annual Congress.
Toronto, Canada.
October 2-5, 2019.6. Suarez-Ahedo C; Gui C; Martin T; Chandrasekaran S; Domb B.
Robotic arm assisted total hip arthroplasty results  in smaller acetabular cup size in relation to the femoral head size: A Matched-Pair Controlled Study.
Hip Int.
2017; 27  (2): 147-152.
7.
Haddad FS, et al.
Iatrogenic Bone and Soft Tissue Trauma in Robotic-Arm Assisted Total Knee Arthroplasty  Compared With Conventional Jig-Based Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Prospective Cohort Study and Validation of a New  Classification System.
J Arthroplasty.
2018 Aug;33(8):2496-2501.
Epub 2018 Mar 27.
8.
Hozack WJ.
Multicentre analysis of outcomes after robotic-arm assisted total knee arthroplasty.
Orthop Proc.
2018;100-B(SUPP_12):38.
9.
Banks, Scott A, PhD.
Haptic Robotics Enable a Systems Approach to Design of a Minimally Invasive Modular Knee  Arthroplasty.
Am J Orthop.
2009;38(2 suppl):23-27.
February 2009.
10.
Hampp E, Chang TC, Pearle A.
Robotic partial knee arthroplasty demonstrated greater bone preservation  compared to robotic total knee arthroplasty.
Annual Orthopaedic Research Society.
Austin, TX.
2-5 Feb 2019.
11.
Japan Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.
The 4th NDB Open Data Japan (Cases from Apr 2017 to  Mar 2018).
2019.Design by Addison   www.addison.comStryker | 2019 Annual Review  Hips Power Tools   and Surgical  EquipmentKnees Interventional  SpineAdvanced  Guidance   TechnologiesRobotic-Arm Assisted  Technology Neurosurgical  and ENTMinimally-Invasive   and Open Surgical   Visualization SolutionsTrauma NeurovascularInfrastructure  and IntegrationExtremities Sports Medicine Spinal Implants  and BiologicsEmergency and  Acute CareReprocessing and  RemanufacturingOrthopaedics Neurotechnology and SpineMedical and Surgical equipment Craniomaxillofacial © 2020 Stryker | 2825 Airview Boulevard |  Kalamazoo, MI 49002 USA | stryker.com | SYK Corp 2020-02-Products may not be available in all markets.
Product availability is subject to the regulatory and/or medical practices in individual markets.
Our Annual Review contains many of the valuable trademarks owned and/or used by Stryker and our subsidiaries and affiliates in the U.S. and internationally  to distinguish products and services of outstanding quality.
All other trademarks featured herein are the property of their respective owners.
This document is governed solely by applicable U.S. laws and governmental regulations.Additional   information Independent registered   public accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP  Grand Rapids, Michigan Transfer agent and registrar American Stock Transfer &   Trust Company, LLC  New York, New York Shareholders needing information  regarding their certificates or dividends  should contact: American Stock Transfer &   Trust Company, LLC  Operations Center   6201 15th Avenue   New York, New York 11219   800 937 5449   info@amstock.com Investor contact Katherine A.
Owen  Vice President, Strategy and   Investor Relations Media contact Yin C.
Becker  Vice President, Communications,   Public Affairs and Corporate MarketingBusiness development contact Bryant S.
Zanko  Vice President, Business Development Annual meeting The virtual Annual Meeting of  Shareholders of Stryker Corporation   will be held on Tuesday, May 5, 2020,  at 2:00 p.m. ET.
Access the meeting online at:  www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/ SYKOr by phone, listen only:  U.S. (toll free): 1-877-328-2502   International: 1-412-317-Stock listing The company’s common stock is traded  on the New York Stock Exchange under  the symbol SYK.
Form 10-K The company files an Annual Report  on Form 10-K with the Securities and  Exchange Commission.
Shareholders   may view the 2019 report at   www.stryker.com or www.sec.gov.Forward-looking statements This Annual Review contains  information that includes or is based  on forward-looking statements within  the meaning of the federal securities  law that are subject to various risks  and uncertainties that could cause our  actual results to differ materially from  those expressed or implied in such  statements.
Such factors include, but  are not limited to: the failure to satisfy  any of the closing conditions to the  acquisition of Wright Medical, including  the receipt of any required regulatory  clearances (and the risk that such  clearances may result in the imposition  of conditions that could adversely affect  the expected benefits of the transaction);  delays in consummating the acquisition  of Wright; unexpected liabilities, costs,  charges or expenses in connection with  the acquisition of Wright; the effects of  the proposed Wright transaction (or the  announcement thereof) on the parties’  relationships with employees, customers,  other business partners or governmental  entities; the impact of the coronavirus  (COVID-19); weakening of economic  conditions that could adversely affect  the level of demand for our products;  pricing pressures generally, including  cost-containment measures that could  adversely affect the price of or demand for our products; changes in foreign  exchange markets; legislative and  regulatory actions; unanticipated issues  arising in connection with clinical  studies and otherwise that affect U.S.  Food and Drug Administration approval  of new products, including Wright  products; potential supply disruptions;  changes in reimbursement levels from  third-party payors; a significant increase  in product liability claims; the ultimate  total cost with respect to recall-related  matters; the impact of investigative and  legal proceedings and compliance risks;  resolution of tax audits; the impact of  the federal legislation to reform the  United States healthcare system; costs to  comply with medical device regulations;  changes in financial markets; changes in  the competitive environment; our ability  to integrate and realize the anticipated  benefits of acquisitions in full or at  all or within the expected timeframes,  including the acquisition of Wright;  and our ability to realize anticipated  cost savings.
Additional information  concerning these and other factors is  contained in our filings with the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission,  including our Annual Report on  Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports  on Form 10-Q.