2020  Comprehensive Report Financial, environmental, social and governanceTable of  contents Performance and governance Patient impact CEO stakeholder letter Who we are Corporate Responsibility strategy Governance Leadership Financial highlights Innovation, mergers and acquisitions Global recognition Product quality Operating with integrity Business ethics and ethical marketing Supply chain management Social impact Community engagement 27Medical education Access and affordability Employee safety Employee training and development Diversity, equity and inclusion COVID-19: Our response efforts  Globalization Environmental sustainability   Carbon neutrality: Our journey to 2030 Environment Product design and lifecycle management Data summary About this report Forward-looking statements GRI index SASB index GRI and SASB references included throughout the report, see data summary for details Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report 2Life can get complicated when a bright, active  teenager, who’s an accomplished and passionate  dancer, must face the prospects of complex spinal  surgery to address a worsening case of scoliosis, or  curvature of the spine.
It’s a procedure that will have  an impact on the rest of her life.
Seventeen-year-old Destiney Jackson, from Gainesville,  Florida, has been dancing since she was three.
“It’s  always been a big part of my life,” she says with a  winning smile.
“It’s the way I express myself; I love it.”  A good student and a member of her high school’s  competitive dance team, Destiney endured long  practices and began to feel unusually sore and  uncomfortable.
“It started affecting my confidence,  and I was afraid that my appearance was crooked,” she  says.
She realized her condition was getting worse.
The path forward That’s where Dr. Laurel Blakemore comes in, a  renowned orthopaedic surgeon with expertise in  pediatric scoliosis and other spinal deformities —   a pioneering role model and advocate for women in  the field.
While she discussed each treatment’s pros  and cons with Destiney and her parents, it became  clear to all that surgery was the best option.
“Left untreated, scoliosis can seriously impact  the quality of your life and your longevity,”  says Dr. Blakemore, who was Chief of Pediatric  Orthopaedics at the University of Florida College of  Medicine at the time and is now CEO of Pediatric  Specialists of Virginia.
“ As the curvature worsens,  people can end up in pain, with shortness of breath and  a decrease of lung capacity,” she adds.
“Making the decision for surgery was nerve-wracking,”  says Destiney’s father, Kevin, “but we realized we  had to go ahead.” Her mother, Patrice, says the family  focused on staying positive.
Destiney agreed, saying,  “We knew we were in good hands.”  “Our objective was to stop Destiney’s curve from  getting bigger and correct the existing curve as much  as possible,” Dr. Blakemore explains.
During surgery,  Dr. Blakemore used Stryker’s Mesa 2 Deformity Spinal  System, which, she says, is “the first multiple reduction  tool in one system1 and, I believe, very effective and  versatile.
It’s also small and lightweight.”A young dancer with scoliosis faces a bright  future after instrumentation with Stryker  technology thanks to two surgical pioneers Patient impact Dr. Laurel Blakemore  Pediatric Specialists of Virginia  “The first  time I danced  [again] felt  amazing”  —  Destiney Jackson 1 See references on page Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceThe journey to recovery “Coming out of surgery, I was loopy but happy it was  over,” Destiney explains.
When she first stood up, she  had grown one-and-a-half inches.
Because the surgery  went so well and she was otherwise healthy, Destiney  was discharged after only two days, ready to begin  recovery.
“The first time I danced [again] felt amazing,” Destiney  says, beaming.
“It was great to get back to normal, and  I soon realized I could do things like cartwheels and  rolls without pain.
I even started wearing high heels  after a month.”  Now Destiney can look to her future with optimism.
“I’m still deciding on college, and I’m interested in  graphic design or computer science — I’m not sure yet,”  she says.
“But dancing will always be a part of my life.”Building the tools to treat scoliosis Half a world away from Florida, in Ghana, lives  renowned orthopaedic surgeon Nana Prof Oheneba  Boachie-Adjei Woahene II, who helped create the  Mesa 2 Deformity Spinal System used in complex  surgeries like Destiney’s.
Dr. Boachie-Adjei is the  founder of the Foundation of Orthopedics and  Complex Spine (FOCOS) and FOCOS Orthopedic  Hospital in Accra.
He is a member of our Spine  division’s scientific board.
“The technology we developed for Mesa 2 is  simple and versatile and designed to address  difficult maneuvers for complex spinal  pathologies — repl acing what we used to do   with wires,” he says.
A former professor at the Weill Cornell Medical  College and Chief of Scoliosis at the Hospital for  Special Surgery, both in New York, Dr. Boachie- Adjei founded FOCOS as a medical mission.
The  goal: to make quality orthopaedic and spine care  possible, especially for the poor, vulnerable and  underserved populations across Ghana and the  West African sub-region.
Opened in 2012, the 70- bed state-of-the-art orthopaedic hospital treats  some 300–400 people a year, about half getting   care for free.
In 2020, in addition to the countless professional  awards he has received, Professor Boachie-Adjei  was named the “essential chief” of the Asantehene,  King of the Ashanti kingdom, for his dedication,  commitment and service.Nana Prof Oheneba Boachie-Adjei Woahene II  Foundation of Orthopedics and Complex Spine (FOCOS)  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceDear stakeholders, 2020 was a year like no other! Stryker is weathering the  COVID-19 storm and continues to be well-positioned  for the future.
The pandemic’s impact was dramatic in  the second quarter and continued thereafter, resulting  in our first annual decline in revenue since going  public in 1979.
However, we did well in keeping our  employees safe, serving our customers, and displaying  strong financial discipline, including delivering a record  year of cash flow.
The halting of elective procedures in  various geographies around the world was the primary  cause for sales declines across multiple divisions and  was most strongly felt in our hip, knee, instruments  and endoscopy businesses.
Our performance continued  to outpace our competition but was below our normal  expectations given the macroeconomic conditions.
Culture and leadership The importance of our mission was reinforced by the  pandemic, and, in 2020, together with our customers,  we were driven to make healthcare better.
Many of our  employees went to work on-site every day during the  pandemic, to manufacture critical products or support  our customers on the front lines of healthcare delivery.
Our focus on safety remained a top priority, and in  addition to effective COVID prevention measures,  we had an excellent reduction in injury rates in our  manufacturing facilities.
We embraced flexible work  practices and employee well-being, and will evolve  our ways of working based on our learnings through  this challenging time.
We continue to be regarded  as a great place to work and moved up three spots  to #5 in Fortune’s World’s Best Workplaces list.
We also received Great Place to Work awards around  the world, including in Europe and Asia-Pacific  countries.
We are making strong progress on Diversity,  Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) by empowering our  Employee Resource Groups and focusing on inclusive  management practices, including a novel, internally  developed training program called Think Twice.
We had several changes to our Board of Directors  this year.
We welcomed new board members Lisa  M.
Skeete Tatum, Founder and CEO of Landit, Inc.,  and Dr. Giovanni Caforio, Chairman and CEO of  Bristol Myers Squibb, and we look forward to their  contributions.
In addition, Roch Doliveux announced  that after 10 years of dedicated service, he will not  stand for re-election in May 2021 (see p.
12).
On our  leadership team, Katherine Owen announced her  retirement from the Vice President of Strategy and  Investor Relations role in March, after 13 years of  valued service (see p.
14).
Financial performance Largely due to the pandemic, our reported sales  declined 3.6 percent, our reported net earnings  decreased 23.2 percent, and our adjusted net   earnings decreased 9.9 percent, while we delivered   $3.3 billion of cash from operations which was a   50 percent increase from 2019.
As a commitment   to our shareholders and our long-term goals we  continued to increase our dividend rate, including   by 9.6 percent for the January 2021 payment.
Kevin A.
Lobo Chair and CEO Innovation, mergers and acquisitions A hallmark of our historic growth record is steady  innovation and acquisitions.
In November, we closed  the largest acquisition in our company’s history,  Wright Medical, a fast-growing leader in extremities  that will bolster our existing Trauma & Extremities  business.
We also launched many exciting products,  including a wireless Acute Care bed and new product  offerings in Neurovascular, Spine and Foot and Ankle.
We released updated hip software for our Mako  SmartRobotics System, secured regulatory approval  for Mako applications in China, Brazil and Russia, and  in spite of the pandemic, installed a record number of  Mako Systems.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceCost transformation We made significant progress in cost transformation  and had a strong year in procurement and expansion  of our finance shared services.
We were challenged in  the rollout of our enterprise resource planning (ERP)  program, and we intend to resume this program once  our operations are stabilized.
We also took decisive  action to curtail spending due to the pandemic, which  contributed to our cash flow performance in the   second half of the year.Corporate responsibility We are working to improve healthcare responsibly  and sustainably because we believe the health of the  world is as important as the people who live in it.
We hope you will find the first annual comprehensive  report informative, as it outlines our progress and  commitments in areas like DE&I and environmental  impact, including a carbon-neutral goal for our  facilities by 2030.
We are committed to delivering  positive results for our employees, customers,  communities and the planet, and we will measure,  monitor and report on our progress.
Mission Together with our customers,   we are driven   to make healthcare better.
Values Integrity   We do what’s rightAccountability   We do what we sayPeople   We grow talentPerformance   We deliverReflecting on 2020, I am proud of the resiliency our  teams displayed, their commitment to our mission   and values and our ability to build new capabilities  that will serve us well in the future.
The Stryker   spirit is alive and well, and our people and culture   will continue to deliver strong performance in the  years ahead.
Kevin A.
Lobo Chair and CEO Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceWho we are Stryker is one of the world’s leading medical  technology companies and, together with our  customers, we are driven to make healthcare better.
We offer innovative products and services that help  improve patient and hospital outcomes.
102-Our specialties Biologics Neurosurgical Craniomaxillofacial Neurovascular Digital, Robotics and  Enabling Technologies Power Tools Emergency and   Acute CareRobotic-Arm Assisted  Technology       ENT Spinal Implants    Foot and Ankle Sports Medicine Hips Surgical Equipment Infrastructure and   IntegrationSustainability Solutions Interventional Spine Trauma   Knees Upper Extremities   Minimally-Invasive and  Open SurgicalVisualization Solutions symbol for our common stock  publicly traded on the New  York Stock Exchange 102-5SYK United States patents   and 6,407 patents in   other countries 4,global sales 2020  102-7$14.4B  employees worldwide in  2020 102-743,Kalamazoo,  Michigan, U.S.  102-3Global   headquarters  spent on R&D in 2020$984M  countries including operations in the following geographic areas: the United States  (including Puerto Rico); Europe, Middle East, Africa; Asia Pacific; Canada and countries   in the Latin American region 102-4; 102-6; 102-7Over 75Approximately  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceWho we are Our company strategy Drive market  leading growth and  achieve category  leadership in  MedSurg Equipment,  Orthopaedics, and  Neurotechnology/ Spine Quality first: Top tier products and services   Talent and culture: Mission-driven diverse and inclusive teams• Intense customer  commitment  through business  unit specialization • Achieve highest  levels of customer  engagement  through high  quality products,  sales and marketing  excellence and  world-class supply  chain• Make healthcare  better through  evidence-based  products and  services that   enable safer   patient care and  improved outcomes • Drive growth  through disciplined  investment in  R&D and business  development• Focus resources and  talent on key global  markets • Strengthen  alignment among  franchises, country  teams and global  functions • Positively impact  people and  environment through  responsible and  sustainable practices• Drive operational  efficiency and cash  flow to reinvest in  growth • Continuously reduce  costs and expand  margins to optimize  shareholder valueCustomer focus Innovation Globalization Cost  transformation Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceCorporate Responsibility   strategy  Corporate Responsibility underpins how we operate  our company.
Our employees are driven by a strong  sense of purpose, and as we pursue our mission to  make healthcare better, we see endless opportunity.
We reflect our mission in our Corporate Responsibility  (CR) objective: To positively impact people and our  planet through responsible, sustainable practices   that create a better, healthier world .
To assist us in  meeting this objective, we undertook several critical  steps in 2020: • Expanded our Corporate Responsibility Steering  Committee  • Implemented an updated Corporate Responsibility  strategy, including a mission and values-based  approach to our environmental, social and  governance (ESG) initiatives • Hired senior leaders for Corporate Responsibility  and Sustainability to drive our efforts • Developed a CR Steering Committee Charter  empowering our steering committee to oversee  strategy, advocate for business-aligned practices and  provide a forum for accountability to meet the CR  objective and goals • Established goals for carbon reduction, diversity,  equity and inclusion and responsible procurement • Began due diligence in other areas, including waste  reduction, medical education and volunteering • Enhanced our reporting, using both the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board (SASB) to inform our  reporting efforts  • Renewed our commitment to transparency,  communicating both our successes and   opportunities to our stakeholders Looking ahead, we plan to evolve our CR strategy,  continue to enhance our reporting, expand our goals  to additional target areas, drive reductions in our  environmental footprint and implement a giving   and volunteering platform to scale our positive   social impact.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceSteering Committee structure** CR Steering  Committee Sean Etheridge   Corporate SecretaryViju Menon   Global Quality   and OperationsYin Becker   Corporate  Affairs Eileen Buckley   Corporate  Responsibility Mike Anderson   APAC Gemma de Koning   EMEA, LATAM   and CAErik Todd and  Jodie Morrow   Commercial  BusinessKaty Fink   Human  Resources Preston Wells   Investor RelationsErol Odabasi   Corporate  SustainabilityOur CR commitments Increase supply chain   transparency and   supplier diversityGovernance and Nominating  Committee oversight of   corporate responsibilityAdvance a culture of inclusion,  engagement and belongingStrengthen the diversity  of our  workforce and measure progress 20% reduction in carbon  emissions  for all facilities   2019-2024*Carbon neutral  for all   Stryker facilities by 2030* *Scopes 1 and 2; see pages 43, **See governance section for reporting structure Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceGovernance At Stryker, we are committed to doing what’s right.
Good corporate governance is essential.
We conduct  our affairs in compliance with all applicable laws and  regulations according to the highest ethical standards.
102-16  Our mission and values, code of conduct and code of  ethics are the foundation from which we embark on  our CR journey.
Our Board of Directors considers environmental, social  and economic risks in enterprise risk management  and strategy development and delegates responsibility  to Stryker leaders who direct local management  responsible for implementation.
102-19 In February  2021, we amended our Governance and Nominating  Committee Charter to give this Board Committee  oversight responsibility of corporate responsibility  matters.
102-18bOur expanded Corporate Responsibility Steering  Committee includes three leadership team members  who report to the CEO, and we have developed a  charter to instill accountability.
102-20a The Steering  Committee oversees goals setting and CR reporting.
102-The Steering Committee and other leadership team  members provide regular updates to the Governance  and Nominating Committee, bi-annual updates to  Stryker’s leadership team and annual updates to the  full Board of Directors.
102-20b; 102-27; 102-Stryker regularly engages with shareholders and  considers proposals when properly submitted based on  our mission and values.
Proposals come to a vote at our  annual meeting when common ground is not found.
102-21; 102-Corporate governance information, including our  bylaws, charters, guidelines and policies, is available  on stryker.com, and we include further details about  governance topics in our proxy statement.
We provide  periodic disclosures in our SEC filings.
Our mission and  values, code of  conduct and code  of ethics are the  foundation from  which we embark  on our CR journey.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceLeadership Board of Directors Rajeev Suri **Kevin A.
Lobo *Allan C.
Golston †‡§Mary K.
Brainerd ** Giovanni Caforio, M.D. Srikant M.
Datar, Ph.D. ‡§ Chairman Emeritus John W.
Brown   Former Chairman,  President and Chief  Executive Officer Director Emeritus Howard E.
Cox, Jr.With appreciation Roch Doliveux, DVM ‡§  We express our gratitude to Roch Doliveux, who has served as  a director since 2010, including as chair of the compensation  committee.
Roch provided excellent guidance on strategy,  globalization and innovation and did so in a collegial manner.
He brought passion, energy and a constructively challenging  mindset, which helped to make Stryker better.Roch Doliveux, DVM ‡§Sherilyn S.
McCoy ‡§Andrew K.
Silvernail  **Lisa M.
Skeete Tatum **Ronda E.
Stryker §  * Chair of the Board  † Lead Independent Director ** Audit Committee  ‡ Compensation Committee  §  Governance and Nominating  Committee Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceLeadership team Kevin A.
Lobo  Chair and CEO Viju S.
Menon  Group President,   Global Quality and OperationsYin C.
Becker  Vice President, Chief  Corporate Affairs OfficerGlenn S.
Boehnlein  Vice President,   Chief Financial OfficerM.
Kathryn (Katy) Fink  Vice President,   Chief Human Resources OfficerRobert S.
Fletcher  Vice President,   Chief Legal Officer J.
Andrew (Andy) Pierce  Group President,   MedSurg and Neurotechnology Timothy J.
Scannell  President and   Chief Operating OfficerSpencer S.
Stiles  Group President,  Orthopaedics and Spine  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceRobert C.
Cohen   Digital, Robotics and  Enabling Technologies  Dylan B.
Crotty   Instruments  Brent W.
Ladd   Endoscopy  David Mercado    Craniomaxillofacial  Michael H.
Panos    Trauma & Extremities  Mark H.
Paul   Neurovascular  Donald E.
Payerle    Joint Replacement   Charles E.
Robinson, Jr.    Spine   Bradford L.
Saar    Medical   Brian J.
White     Sustainability SolutionsOther Officers William E.
Berry Jr.   Vice President,  Corporate Controller  Jeanne M.
Blondia   Vice President, Finance  and Treasurer  Irene B.
Corbe   Vice President, Internal Audit  Alan E.
Douville   Vice President, Chief Information  Officer and Chief Information  Security Officer Sean C.
Etheridge   Vice President,  Corporate Secretary David G.
Furgason   Vice President, Tax  Dana S.
McMahon   Vice President, Chief  Compliance Officer Jody K.
Powell   Vice President, Global RAQA  Preston W.
Wells   Vice President, Investor RelationsWith appreciation We’d like to express our sincere gratitude for the contributions from the following  members of our leadership team who retired in 2020:  Divisional    leadershipRegional    leadership Katherine A.
Owen Vice President, Strategy  and IR Katherine professionalized  our investor relations, led  corporate strategy and M&A  and was a dynamic member  of our leadership team for  13 years.
Dean H.
Bergy   Vice President,  Corporate Secretary Dean made significant  contributions to our growth  and ethical governance,  including during his years  as chief financial officer.Xavier M.C. Berling   President, Trauma  & Extremities Xavier was one of our most  global leaders, making  strong contributions  in multiple regions and  divisions over 19 years.
William J.
Cymbaluk  Vice President, Corporate  Regulatory Affairs and QA Bill made many  contributions to product  quality & regulatory  processes over 38 years.
Graham A.
McLean   Regional President,  Asia Pacific Graham has helped grow  and position many of our  Asia Pacific businesses for  sustained success in his 16  years with Stryker.
Other  leadership members  Maurice Ben-Mayor   South Pacific Silvia L.F. Braga   Latin America Dragana Bunjevac   EEMEA  John P.
Collings   Asia Pacific  Wesley B.
Grant    East Asia  Min Ma    China Satoshi Mizusawa   Japan Meenakshi Nevatia    India Stuart A.J. Silk    EMEA, Canada,  Latin America Lindsay A.
Williams   Canada Cecelia Zhou   Trauson Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceFinancial highlights Financial overview ($ in millions, except per share amounts) 2020 2019 % Change Net sales $14,351 $14,884 (3.6)% Earnings before income taxes  1,954  2,562 (23.7)% Income taxes  355  479 (25.9)% Net earnings  1,599  2,083 (23.2)% Adjusted net earnings*  2,827  3,139 (9.9)% Net earnings per diluted share  of common stock   Reported  $4.20  $5.48 (23.4)%   Adjusted*  7.43  8.26 (10.0)% Dividends paid per share of  common stock $2.30  $2.08 10.6% Cash, cash equivalents and  marketable securities 3,024  4,425 (31.7)% * Adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share are non-GAAP financial measures.
Refer to page 60 for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, net  earnings and net earnings per diluted share.Net earnings $ per diluted share 2015 20204.203.784.2.689.5.48Adjusted net earnings* $ per diluted share 2015 20207.5.125.806.497.318.7.7% CAGR Dividends paid $ per share of common stock 2015 20202.1.381.521.701.882.10.8% CAGR Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceLeading in medtech  12% Trauma           & Extremities 11% Knees  8% Hips  3% Other34%Orthopaedics 18% Medical 13% Instruments 12% Endoscopy  2% Sustainability            Solutions45%MedSurg 14% Neurotechnology   7% Spine21%Neurotechnology   and Spine  Orthopaedics   14%7% 18% 13% 12% 2% 12%11%8%3%M edical and Surgical (MedSurg)                                                                                                                       Neurotechnology and Spine   $14 .
4 B in global sales2020 geographic net sales Emerging   Markets 6% International  (developed) 21%United States 73% Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceInnovation , mergers and acquisitions Despite the unprecedented challenges of 2020, we  significantly strengthened our product and service  lines, development capabilities and market reach  through innovative new products and our acquisition  of Wright Medical, the largest in our history.
As a recognized leader in the upper extremities  (shoulder, elbow, wrist and hand), lower  extremities (foot and ankle) and biologics market  segments  — among the fastest-growing segments in  orthopaedics — Wright Medical brings a complementary  product portfolio and customer base to our trauma,  foot and ankle and upper extremities businesses.
The combined business enhances our global  market position and reach, providing considerable  opportunities to advance innovation and improve  patient outcomes.
Strengthening our market leadership with innovative product  launches and a historic merger In addition, Wright’s extensive portfolio and talented  professionals in biologics bring a level of expertise  that will spur the development of new products in  this evolving category.
OrthoSensor.
We also acquired OrthoSensor, Inc., a  leader in the digital evolution of musculoskeletal care  and sensor technology for total joint replacement.
Their  accomplishments in sensor technology, coupled with  expanded data analytics and increasing computational  power, will strengthen the foundation of our digital  ecosystem for orthopaedics.
Rebuilding   lives,   together.
Wright Medical is   now part of Stryker.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceNiagara Lateral Access System  for spine  deformities.
Our lateral spine portfolio has  expanded with the full launch of the Niagara  Lateral Retractor System, a comprehensive and  integrated minimally invasive lateral solution for  treating spinal deformities in skeletally mature  patients.
The Niagara Lateral Retractor helps to  enable control through precision, flexibility and  visibility and is designed to allow surgeons to  meet the various lateral spinal access challenges  they encounter.
Intramedullary Nailing System  for complex  foot surgeries.
The launch of our T2 ICF  Intramedullary nailing system offers a surgical  option for patients suffering from serious foot  conditions such as Charcot foot—a condition  associated with diabetes which may result in  poor bone quality, possible nerve damage and  potential foot ulcers.
AXS Vecta Aspiration Catheter  for  thrombectomy.
As the first 0.074-inch lumen  aspiration catheter on the market, the AXS Vecta  Aspiration Catheter is designed to empower  complete clot removal through aspiration alone  or with a stent retriever, while maintaining  reliable navigation with its soft, rounded tip and  low profile 2.11mm OD.
AxSOS 3 Ankle Fusion System  for less  customization.
AxSOS 3 is a titanium ankle  fusion plate system intended for the fusion of  the tibio-talar joint.
It was developed using  SOMA, our proprietary orthopaedic design and  development system that applies data from  over 25,000 CT images of bones across different  populations.
As a result, the plates fit a range of  patients with less customization.
Mako Total Hip 4.0 SmartRobotics .
This System  provides unprecedented information, with CT- based 3D modeling and new planning features,  which enable surgeons to plan a patient’s  implant position while taking into account  changes in pelvic tilt in the patient’s sitting,  standing and supine poses.
Surgeons can also  visualize the femur-to-pelvis and component  relationship to help detect risk of potential  impingement.Technological advances 2020 also saw advancements in several major product categories: Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceVariAx 2 Mini Fragment plating system  for  orthopaedic trauma.
The VariAx 2 features a  complete range of low-profile plate and screw  options utilizing SmartLock variable angle  locking technology and compression capabilities,  which permit polyaxial screw placement.
Surpass Evolve Flow Diverter  for aneurysm  healing.
The first 64-wire cobalt chromium flow  diverter designed to redirect blood flow and  promote healing of brain aneurysms.
Through  its optimized design, Surpass Evolve offers  effortless delivery, predictable deployment,  enhanced vessel wall apposition and an  optimized flow diversion profile.
Surpass Evolve  is our latest innovation in flow diversion,  following the launch of Surpass Streamline.
ProCuity bed series  designed to address major  healthcare safety challenges for patients and  nurses.
ProCuity, the industry’s first and only  completely wireless hospital bed, was designed  to help reduce bed-related falls, streamline  nurse workflow and help reduce hospital costs.
Connecting seamlessly to nurse call systems  without cables or wires and set at a low height of  11.5 inches, ProCuity is ergonomically designed,  including intuitive patient positioning and bed  alarms as well as ergonomic side rails.
The bed’s  easy-to-use touchscreens and other components  make the job of caregivers easier and more  efficient while providing for a more enhanced  patient experience.
Support for ambulatory surgery centers In recent years, procedural volumes, particularly with total joints,  have been migrating at an accelerated pace from the hospital  outpatient department to ambulatory surgery centers (ASCs).
With the  potential to provide over $55 billion per year in healthcare cost savings  in the U.S., this rapid shift in the site of care is expected to continue  well into the post-pandemic environment.
To meet the unique needs of this emerging customer, we launched an  ASC-focused business in 2020, which offers ASCs access to the breadth  and depth of our portfolio while delivering tailored solutions to help  maximize their clinical, financial and operational outcomes.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceGlobal recognition #5, Fortune and Great Place  to WorkWorld’s Best  Workplaces  #8, Fortune100 Best   Companies   to Work For #214, Fortune Australia, Brazil, Canada,   Hong Kong, Finland, France,  Greater China, Italy, Japan,   Korea, Mexico, Spain, U.K. Region: Asia, Europe Specialty: Healthcare,  Manufacturing and ProductionFortune 500  Best   Workplaces,  Great Place  to WorkBest Workplaces for Women,   Great Place to Work, U.S. Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality,   HRC Corporate Equality Index  Military Friendly Employers, VIQTORY Best Companies for Diversity,   Women’s ChoiceDiversity,  equity and  inclusion FortuneWorld’s   Most Admired Best Companies for Women, Women’s Choice Best Workplaces for Inclusion in Canada, Great Place to Work Best Workplace for Seniors in Spain, Great Place to Work Best Workplaces for Women in Canada, Great Place to Work Best Workplaces for Women in Brazil, Great Place to Work Best Workplaces for Women in Italy, Great Place to Work Best Workplaces for Women in the U.K., Great Place to Work Best Places to Work for Diversity and Inclusion in Mexico, Great Place to Work Best Workplaces for Millennials, Great Place to Work, U.S. Best Workplaces for Parents, Great Place to Work, U.S. Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceProduct  quality Aligned with our mission, values and strategic imperatives, our Quality Policy  sets the direction for quality within our organization.
Stryker designs quality into all our processes and products and strives to meet  and exceed global regulatory standards.
We certify all our manufacturing and  design sites to ISO 13485:2016, the international standard for medical product  quality systems.
We stand behind our products and address issues if they arise.
We have a robust  quality data program that includes key process indicators for different dimensions  of quality.
This data is used to manage the day-to-day quality activities and is  also regularly reviewed with executive leadership.
Foundational to our quality  management system is our continuous improvement program.
416-1   At its core, continuous improvement empowers employees to solve problems  that they encounter in their day-to-day work.
Stryker has approximately 2,500  employees certified to lead continuous improvement projects identified through  internal and external audits, customer feedback and post-market surveillance.
All projects conclude with a documented, evidence-based effectiveness check.
Stryker labels all products according to U.S. Food and Drug Administration and  other regulatory guidance in the markets where sold.
417-Quality is first in all we do.
Stryker provides training for every employee who  impacts quality to understand their impact and how they can help ensure  quality.
This year we organized 132 events across 46 sites — with more than  800 participants — to celebrate and reinforce our strong quality culture.
Quality Policy At Stryker, quality is first in everything we do.
We are driven to make healthcare better for our   customers by providing innovative products   and services that meet regulatory requirements  through our effective quality system.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceOperating with  integrity  We consider global excellence a growth strategy  to advance innovation and reach more patients.
By focusing on the resources and talent in key  global markets and strengthening alignment among  franchises, country teams and global functions, we  make investments where appropriate to enhance our  global market position.
In 2020, efforts centered on upgrading our indirect  channel business and governance model to align with  our growth strategy.
Indirect Channel Management  (ICM) will provide global oversight, alignment and  consistency in managing indirect channels (IC) across  our geographic reach, maintaining robust channel  management processes for sustainable growth and  ensuring that all IC partners operate to the highest  professional standards required by Stryker.
We  established a new Global IC Governance Committee  to review and address restricted party decisions  and manage the country entry and exit process.
The  Global ICM function, together with the ICM Finance  function, are examples of aligning teams with our  growth strategy.
“We have an opportunity to raise the bar on the way  we look at and get indirect channels to work alongside  us,” said Laurence Hipkin, Vice President, Global  Indirect Channel Management.
“ Anyone that sells a  product or represents Stryker needs to demonstrate  and live our mission and values.
Our job is to instill  that to those who interact with HCPs and customers on  our behalf.” Laurence leads the dedicated ICM team.
Launched in  October 2019, the team provides global standards and  processes that hold our indirect channels to the highest  professional standards we expect at Stryker.
“Stryker is a growth company and has thrived on  allowing businesses to run independently, and that  can sometimes result in overly complicated market  approaches; with over 2,500 channel partners  generating over 20 percent of our global revenues, we  need to get it right.
We want to set a new standard  and strengthen our alignment, allowing us to serve  our customers better and to create longer-term growth  relationships with our indirect channel partners.” We consider  global   excellence   a growth  strategy Laurence draws an analogy from his love of classic  cars.
“If you put better brakes on a car, in theory, you  can go faster,” he said.
“Upgrading our management  of indirect channels will help us to grow faster with  partners who are aligned with our goals and our  mission and values.”  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceBusiness  ethics and ethical marketing  At Stryker, we are committed to conducting our affairs  ethically and lawfully.
Our code of conduct and code  of ethics establish policies and procedures intended  to guide employees, officers and directors in the  performance of their duties and responsibilities and  ensure compliance with the company’s commitment to  ethical and lawful conduct.
Our focus on doing what’s  right stems directly from our mission and values and  joins all employees in protecting our customers and   our business.
103-Code of conduct Our code of conduct applies to all employees, officers  and directors of Stryker and our domestic and foreign  subsidiaries.
It is the first of our 13 corporate policies ,  available in 23 languages on our website.
Failure to observe our code of conduct or any  other company policy may result in disciplinary  action, including termination of employment where  appropriate, and could constitute a violation of law  that might result in civil or criminal penalties.
Stryker  reports incidents of government enforcement actions  related to non-compliance when required.
206-1; 419-1Code of ethics Our code of ethics applies to Stryker’s principal  executive officer, president, principal financial officer,  principal accounting officer, and controller and is  supplemental to the code of conduct.
The code of  ethics addresses transparent reporting requirements  and compliance with applicable laws, rules and  regulations.
Stryker’s guide on Interactions with  Healthcare Professionals (HCPs) was used as a model  by the industry association AdvaMed in updating  their ethics code in January 2020.
In turn, Stryker has  endorsed, adopted and certified to the industry code on  interactions with HCPs. Ethical marketing In our code of conduct, we explicitly state our  commitment to accurately represent our products  and services and comply with applicable regulatory  and legal requirements governing our products and  services’ marketing and sale.
Our Corporate Policy 5:  On-Label Product Promotion provides further guidance  and direction on our commitment by making it clear  that Stryker employees, contractors, consultants and  other third parties acting on Stryker’s behalf may only  promote Stryker products for uses consistent with   the label.
SASB  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceRisk assessment Stryker has various programs and processes to identify  and assess a broad range of strategic, financial,  operational and compliance risks, including the risk  of anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly  practices, and acts when necessary.
The vice president,  risk management administers our enterprise risk  program.
The risk programs, related activities and  governance are designed to oversee efforts to identify  emerging risks and implement comprehensive  initiatives where appropriate to manage those risks.
205-Training Multi-layered training focused on the code of conduct,  including what’s expected of employees, business  partners and the company, is the subject of a broad  enterprise-level compliance program communication  and engagement campaign.
Stryker employees certify to the code of conduct on   an annual basis and undertake yearly compliance  training.
In 2020, this training and associated  certification exceeded the 95 percent e-learning  completion rate target.
205-Small group training that enables continuous  improvement is usually held in person with the local  teams, businesses and countries, and moved to virtual  platforms in 2020.
A global Speak Up! campaign  and an Integrity Matters week  took place in October 2020  to shine a spotlight on the  importance of speaking up  about ethical issues.
Based  on benchmarking with other  companies, Stryker has had  a higher walk-in rate for  reporting matters or concerns  versus calling the ethics hotline.
The Speak Up! campaign  encouraged employees to  make their voices heard and  reinforced our anti-retaliation  policy, reporting options and  that every report is taken  seriously.
Time and money spent on doing  business the wrong way is  time and money not spent on  meeting customer and patient  needs  — doing what’s right  in the right way matters for  everyone.Advice and concerns  Stryker has an ethics hotline to provide employees and  non-employees with multiple avenues to raise concerns  or allegations of non-compliance, confidentially and  anonymously, if desired.
Appropriate individuals  receive reports and are responsible for handling these  reports professionally and privately.
The ethics hotline  committee has oversight responsibility of the hotline,  and receives regular reports on key trends and critical  issues.
The chief compliance officer provides the  Governance and Nominating and Audit Committees of  the Board of Directors a quarterly overview.
102-17;  102-Human rights Stryker respects all people’s rights, values a diverse  and inclusive workforce and is committed to treating  all employees with dignity and respect.
Our employees  are expected to maintain a workplace that is free of  discrimination, intimidation and unlawful harassment.
Suspected or known conduct such as discrimination,  harassment, fraud, unethical or unlawful conduct or  retaliation must be reported.
Our vice president, chief  human resources officer oversees human rights policies  and procedures for Stryker employees.
103-Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceIncrease  supply  chain transparency  and supplier  diversity Responsible   procurement goalsSupply chain  management Our suppliers partner with us in our efforts to make  healthcare better.
We are committed to conducting our  affairs ethically and lawfully, and we expect that the  businesses we work with will do the same.
Therefore,  we strive to select suppliers and vendors that share  our commitment to honesty, integrity and corporate  responsibility.
Our supplier code of conduct and PO terms and  conditions communicate the expectations we have for  our suppliers in several key areas, and strict adherence  is a requirement for doing business with us.
The  code addresses non-discrimination, child labor and  young workers, forced, involuntary labor, and human  trafficking, safe working environments, immigration  laws and proper documentation, wages and  benefits, working hours, and freedom of association.
Procurement staff are trained annually on the supplier  code of conduct to ensure they can assist our supply  partners in meeting our expectations.
The latest  training launched in December 2020 and completion  rates will be reported in our 2021 report.
412-We expect our suppliers to share our commitment to  human rights and equal opportunity in the workplace  and require that they conduct their employment  practices in full compliance with all applicable laws  and regulations.
We require that our employees who  most frequently visit or interact with suppliers take  annual training on the prevention of modern slavery  in our supply chain, which educates them on risk  factors, indicators and reporting methods.
For more information, please see our disclosures in response  to the California Transparency Act and U.K. Modern  Slavery Act .
We also believe in the responsible sourcing of the  materials that go into our products, including Tin,  Tantalum, Tungsten and Gold (“3TG”) that may  come from the Democratic Republic of the Congo  and surrounding nations.
We publish our efforts in  this area and our SEC filings in our statement on  conflict minerals.
Additionally, we are members of the  Responsible Minerals Initiative, whose mission is to  provide companies with tools and resources to make  sourcing decisions that improve regulatory compliance  and support responsible sourcing from conflict-affected  and high-risk regions.
In 2020, we made significant progress in furthering  our supply chain management efforts.
We created  a Procurement Center of Excellence, furthering  our efforts with supply chain transparency and  supplier diversity, and initiating human rights and  environmental assessments for targeted portions of our  supply base.
407-1; 408-1; 409-1; SASB Our efforts to strengthen these areas will continue in  2021.
We will further centralize our data collection  capabilities and tools to enable greater transparency  and oversight and work to create a standardized  supplier risk assessment.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceSupplier diversity We believe diverse companies contribute to a strong  supply base, similar to the diversity of our employees,  our customers, the communities in which we live  and work and the patients and caregivers we serve.
Our supplier diversity champions, key sourcing  personnel located at our largest North American  sites, lead us in realizing the benefits of a diverse  supply base by developing awareness and processes  focused on considering minority-, women-, veteran-,  disability- and LGBTQ-owned and small businesses  in our sourcing activities.
In addition, we participate  in outreach and develop diverse suppliers through  our partnerships with the National Minority Supplier  Development Council (NMSDC), the Women’s Business  Enterprise National Council (WBENC) and several  regional organizations.
Our diverse supplier spend is  shown below.
Supplier spend North America   (in $MM)Diverse supplier (total) $Small business (total) $667* Supplier quality management We measure the performance of our suppliers both in  terms of the quality of product they deliver and their  overall capabilities.
We believe that fostering strong  partnerships with our suppliers with a shared focus on  quality delivers the best results.
Suppliers working with Stryker complete an  onboarding process that identifies the requirements  each must meet.
Supply chain quality is overseen by  our global supplier quality team, who are responsible  for compliance to regulations and standards like  ISO13485, monitoring, auditing and improving   our suppliers.
103-From a quality management perspective, our  suppliers are divided into those that provide products  and services that can impact our product quality (approximately 7,000), and those that do not.
Direct  and indirect suppliers with potential to impact quality  are managed through our quality-controlled approved  supplier list, and are classified by category and risk.
Suppliers with a higher category/risk classification  require an audit and supplier agreements to   be onboarded.
Per our Supplier Monitoring and Quality Performance  Review (QPR) process, suppliers subject to audits  are tracked in our Supplier Audit Management  system.
In 2020, approximately 1,000 audits were  completed.
Our QPR tool tracks product and audit  nonconformances, corrective and preventive actions,  product field actions, supplier defects per million and  nonconformances not in Stryker’s control, among other  metrics.
Based on the results of the monitoring and the  QPR review, additional actions are taken to improve  quality performance.
*Excludes those suppliers also qualifying as diverse Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Performance and governanceOur giving and volunteering strategy aims  to advance healthcare, support education  and strengthen community vitality.
Community  engagement Giving We actively seek partnerships with organizations that  align with our mission to make healthcare better and  support philanthropic initiatives around the world  and in our local communities.
Stryker determines  philanthropic support based on community needs  and the desire to create equity for underserved  populations — from humanitarian aid to healthcare  access and other charitable assistance.
Our giving and  volunteering strategy aims to advance healthcare,  support education and strengthen community vitality.
In 2020, our giving strategy became reflective of our  commitments aligned with our DE&I strategy.
Our  Kalamazoo headquarters donated to several new  nonprofits representing marginalized communities.Stryker donated $55 million worth of financial and  product support in 2020: $47 million in product  donations and $8 million in monetary support.
Following are examples of ongoing programs* that help  to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all:  • Our partnership with the Foundation of Orthopedics  and Complex Spine (FOCOS) in Ghana provides  product donations to FOCOS Orthopedic Hospital.• Our Orthopaedics group has supported Operation  Walk since 1996 through giving and volunteering,  including product donations.
• Our South Pacific team provides humanitarian  assistance to the Thi Nghe Orphanage and supports  the establishment and ongoing operation of the  House of Ket Noi Yeu Thuong through the Vietnam  exCHANGE program.
*Programs were limited in 2020 due to COVID-Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactOperation Smile Making healthcare better is our mission, but it doesn’t  belong to us alone.
Operation Smile believes that  every child deserves health and dignity through safe  surgical care.
We share this belief.
That’s why we  proudly support Operation Smile’s efforts to provide  critically needed surgical and comprehensive care for  children with cleft and other conditions in low- and  middle-income countries.
Since 1999, our support  has consisted of cash, in-kind donations and mission  volunteers.
In 2020, Operation Smile suspended large-scale medical  missions to safeguard the health of volunteers and  patients.
While volunteer opportunities were paused  amidst global lockdowns, we continued to support  Operation Smile’s programs through cash and in-kind  donations.
To date, Operation Smile has resumed  patient care in over 24 countries that were deemed  safe and with PPE and COVID-19 testing protocols to  ensure continued safety.
Further, the education and  training programs we support build surgical capacity  in under-resourced countries and serve to advance our  sustainable development goals.
Our partnership with Operation Smile engages our  employees worldwide in the goal of providing life- changing surgery and care to people living in resource- limited settings.
The 2019-2020 Smile Match campaign  exceeded its fundraising goal in just four months and  reached more Stryker employees than any campaign  push in previous years, ultimately funding over 900  life-changing surgeries.
The 2020-2021 Smile Match  campaign was launched with our dollar-for-dollar  match on Giving Tuesday, December 1, 2020.
Our  Stryker Smiles  online giving platform is available   year-round.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactTraining programs Along with our commitment to deliver innovative and industry-leading technology, we  provide extensive medical education and training offerings for healthcare professionals  (HCPs) designed to help advance product and procedural knowledge and skills, improve  customer competence and confidence and lead to better patient outcomes.
Each year,  Stryker educates thousands of HCPs worldwide through various programs.
Examples  of training and education include in-service, cadaver training courses, surgery  observations, HCP-to-HCP training, proctoring and certification and product training  courses.
We conduct all training activities in strict accordance with our HCPi guidance,  which covers considerations, principles and procedures for all interactions between  Stryker employees and HCPs. SASB One of our premier surgeon-to-surgeon programs allows attendees worldwide   to view live surgery anywhere and ask questions during the procedure.
Likewise,   our programs stream virtual surgical demonstrations to hundreds of sites.
Our  experience with these kinds of training setups gave us the expertise and flexibility   to offer virtual training programs despite the global pandemic.
Across our   businesses, in 2020, we trained more than 50,000 HCPs and conducted 925 virtual   and 1,553 live courses.
Medical education   Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactHealthcare professionals can access our educational  opportunities via online portals designed to meet our  customers’ specialized needs.
These channels offer  virtual event calendars, interactive training, on- demand video libraries and learning series.
To grow our educational reach, we continue to open  facilities to train our customers (see p.
49).
In October 2020, after evaluating the medical  education space for improvement, Stryker established  a Medical Education Council to develop a global  team that drives medical education excellence across  the company.
The group leverages cross-divisional  strengths while keeping individual business and  customer needs in mind.
Grants and charitable donations Stryker provides education, research, fellowship grants  and charitable donations for appropriate scientific,  educational or healthcare purposes.
We do not offer  grants or donations as unlawful inducement to  purchase, lease or recommend the use of any Stryker  product or service, as outlined in our HCPi guidance.
We document all grant and charitable donation  requests.
The appropriate business or divisional unit  must review and approve any proposal before the  event’s date and follow applicable laws, regulations,  corporate guidelines and divisional procedures.
103-One example is Stryker’s African Ancestry Network  (SAAN), which partners with the J.
Robert Gladden  Orthopaedic Society to offer medical education grants  and scholarships to society members.
The Gladden  Society is the largest professional society of African  American orthopaedic surgeons in the U.S., with more  than 450 members.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactAccess  and affordability We advocate for increased patient access to  lifesaving and life-improving medical technologies  worldwide, enhancing clinical outcomes and helping  governments, other payers and providers make cost- effective decisions.
Our efforts to improve health  in communities worldwide include impact-focused  philanthropic initiatives, HCP education and training,  reduced-price and refurbished equipment programs,  and compelling health economic data applied to  local populations that offer providers and payers the  opportunity to evaluate care benefit.
Pricing and refurbished equipment  programs Our Flex Financial business offers a range of programs  that can be tailored to meet budgetary needs and help  to build long-term financial stability:  • Deferred payment programs • Traditional finance and operating leases • Fee per disposable or implant • Offered customized programs such as payment   deferral due to the COVID-19 impactWe invest in value-segment technologies to meet the  growing demand for affordable and reliable healthcare  solutions in emerging markets, such as Trauson in  China for trauma, spine and joint replacement products  and MUKA in Turkey for medical beds and stretchers.
The Save Simply Program, made possible by strategic  partnerships between Stryker, Philips and others,  simplifies the supply chain while reducing each  participating hospital’s environmental footprint.
Health economic improvements The SpineJack System was approved by the U.S.  Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) for  both a new technology add-on payment (NTAP) in the  2021 Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System  final regulation and a Transitional Pass-Through (TPT)  payment in the 2021 Medicare Hospital Outpatient  Prospective Payment System final regulation.
The  SpineJack system now becomes one of only 112 medical  devices to receive TPT status since 2016.
The NTAP  and TPT payment provide additional payments for new  medical devices that demonstrate a substantial clinical  improvement over existing technologies and meet other  criteria.DAWN Trial results contributed to updated acute  ischemic stroke guidelines in the U.S. and Europe,  which expanded the eligible treatment window  threefold.
We continue to expand clinical evidence  globally to improve market access and combat  disability in stroke patients.
Stryker is at the forefront of the robotics movement  in orthopaedics as clinical studies continue to  demonstrate why Mako SmartRobotics is transforming  the way HCPs perform hip and knee replacements.
Studies have demonstrated that Mako Total Knee  was associated with less pain, less need for opiate  analgesics, less need for inpatient physical therapy,  reduction in length of hospital stay, improved knee  flexion and soft tissue protection in comparison   to manual techniques.3,4  2,3,4 See references on page Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactSafety data* 403-Recordable   injuries 131Safety   observations Recordable   injury rate   (per 100 employees)2018201920207,3,1267,2018201920200.641.1.*Includes Stryker’s GQO employees as detailed in 403-1 indexEmployee safety Our employees’ safety and well-being are top priorities  and considered a shared responsibility across the  company.
The cornerstone of our safety program is our  Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) policy, which  defines our commitment to: • Promote a safe and environmentally compliant  workplace  • Anticipate, recognize and control environment,  health and safety risks  • Assure facility compliance • Prepare for disaster response and recovery Supported by four strategic imperatives — ownership,  culture, management system and compliance — we  leverage our employees’ talent, reinforced by our  company values, to improve our safety and security  outcomes.
Each strategic imperative has deliverables  that will advance our program along the maturity  continuum and is driven through our EHS management  system based on local or regional requirements.
Our manufacturing operations are overseen by the  vice president, global manufacturing, and each  manufacturing site is responsible for its facility- level EHS compliance.
Each manufacturing facility  is assigned an EHS point of contact (POC) responsible  for managing the local program, supporting the  Global Quality and Operations (GQO) EHS program  responsibilities and relaying global EHS guidance and directives to plant leadership and the local EHS  committee.
They are supported by the GQO EHS  director and regional managers.
103-The most common types of work-related injuries  are slips, trips and falls and machinery-related hand  injuries.
Additional data related to these injuries can be  found in the GRI Index.
403-9  We improve safety performance through our Lessons- Learned program, and education and training initiatives  that move us toward our goal of zero work-related  injuries.
Additional details can be found in the   GRI Index.The cornerstone   of our safety program   is our Environmental,  Health and Safety policy  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactThrough our  employees’  development,  we invest in our  people  Employee training and development Through our employees’ development, we invest in  our people and in greater productivity, which delivers  better outcomes, including growth, retention and  engagement.
At Stryker, employee development means  encouraging employees to acquire new or advanced  skills, knowledge and viewpoints by providing  opportunities to learn and grow and avenues where  employees can apply new ideas.
404-2  Our talent management framework links our mission  to what we do, who we are, how we work and  how we grow each day.
It helps us define employee  development needs, guides the design of learning  opportunities and helps employees worldwide grow  and be successful in their roles at Stryker.
Development at Stryker is extensive and exists at all  levels of the organization, including companywide  training on topics ranging from our code of conduct  and job-related technical training to leadership  development.
Our talent management programs are  designed around a 70/20/10 model of development,  meaning 70 percent of development comes from on- the-job learning, 20 percent from learning through  others and 10 percent from formal programs and  content.
Programs include management and leadership  training, presentation skill development, team-building  and collaboration training, coaching and mentoring  and partnerships with outside experts on key topics.
Training is tracked at the local, business or global  level, depending on the type.
The Talent Management  Center of Expertise tracks management and  leadership development offerings, and in 2020, it  included approximately 285 offerings to more than  15,000 participants.
All Stryker employees are assessed on their performance  annually.
We encourage employees to create individual  development plans, in partnership with their manager,  on an ongoing basis to help employees gain the needed  development experience to grow their careers.
404-3  Our approach to performance management is based  on frequent and continuous conversations, enabling  a culture of coaching and engagement.
Employee  goals, comprised of performance goals and leadership  expectations, drive focus and performance, and  enable employees at every level to tie their work to  our organizational strategy, as well as support their  individual strengths, skills and ambitions.
As employees transition from their role at Stryker,  some may receive transition assistance to facilitate  continued employability and the management of  career endings.
Transition assistance may include  outplacement programs and can vary based on the  circumstances.
404-Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactOur DE&I commitments Advance a culture of  inclusion, engagement  and belongingStrengthen the  diversity of our  workforceMaximize the power  of inclusion to drive  innovation and growth Attract, develop and advance  talent that reflects the  diversity of our customers,  patients, communities and  stakeholdersCreate an equitable culture  that removes barriers,  engages all talent and  inspires every employee to  achieve their full potentialOptimize the power of  diverse backgrounds, talents  and perspectives to make  healthcare better We grow talent Diversity, equity and  inclusion We believe that we are stronger together by valuing our differences.
Events in 2020 reinforced that we must  accelerate our efforts with respect to diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I).
Respect for individuals has always  been a foundation of our culture.
Building on this foundation, we continue to create an inclusive, engaging work  environment and prioritize DE&I in keeping with our values of integrity — “We do what’s right” and people —   “We grow talent.” We continue to focus on our DE&I efforts and made significant strides in 2020, including refining our  commitments.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactTo meet these commitments, we will continue to do the  following:  • Recruit and hire top talent from all backgrounds,  provide targeted development for under-represented  talent and further embed DE&I into our policies,  processes and practices.
• Advance our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)  and the great work they are doing, educate our  employees on DE&I and continue our work to build  inclusive leadership capabilities.
• Create diverse-by-design teams to solve complex  problems and leverage diverse inputs to advance our  mission of making healthcare better.
These commitments will be made actionable in part  through goals to: • Increase representation of women and racial/ ethnically diverse talent to reflect our markets.
• Double our investment  in diversity recruitment  over five years.
• Increase jobs for Black Americans  through active  engagement as a founding member of the OneTen  coalition.• Ensure 100 percent of people managers  complete DE&I training within one year of hire or  promotion to manager.
• Actively support ERGs  through increased funding  and executive leadership sponsorship.
• Measure employee sentiment  on inclusion and  belonging through regular engagement surveys and  ensure parity across gender and racial/ethnic groups.
We will include progress against these goals in future  reporting.
To support these commitments, in 2020 we:  • Continued efforts to embed diversity into our  recruitment processes by launching a formal  diversity recruiting strategy.
• Hired a senior director for DE&I in talent  management and a director of diversity recruiting.
• Launched “Days of Understanding,” a global  initiative designed to foster more in-depth  conversations around the experiences and  perspectives of our ERGs to understand the gaps and  opportunities at Stryker.
Fifteen dialogue sessions  were held, hosted by the ERG presidents.
The results  were aggregated and shared with leadership teams  and functional teams to review and discuss the  actions we will take.In 2020, Stryker  became a founding  member of OneTen,  a coalition of leading  executives dedicated  to upskill, hire and  advance one million  Black Americans over  the next 10 years into  family-sustaining jobs  with opportunities for  advancement.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impact• Continued our unconscious bias training.
Our  “Think Twice” course, a workshop that showcases  what bias is, how and where it shows up, and  what to do about it, is a proactive effort to increase  awareness of unconscious bias and teach skills to  address it.
Since launch, more than 8,300 employees  in nearly 40 countries have participated in the  training, including our CEO and our entire senior  leadership team.
• Expanded our ERGs to nine in total, adding Allies  for All Abilities (focusing on disability inclusion) and  ACE (Asian Community Empowerment).
• Replaced our annual engagement survey with two  Pulse Surveys to understand better how employees  felt about topics such as COVID-19, work flexibility  and inclusion.
In our spring pulse survey, employees  shared feedback about the challenges COVID-19  presented and the strain many felt as they juggled  professional and personal priorities.
As a result,  we implemented a number of solutions to support  our employees during these unprecedented times,  including expanding our employee assistance  program, providing new well-being resources  for employees and launching caregiver resources  with companion training and supporting tools for  managers and HR.
Our vice president, global human resources oversees  our DE&I efforts.
Our leadership teams regularly  review our diversity metrics, including representation,  slates, hires and succession plans, and initiate  strategies and actions to support continued progress.
And our goals link up to the CEO, who has a functional  goal to improve the company’s DE&I, as noted in our  2020 Proxy statement.
103-2  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactManagers  and   Directors31.9% Women 67.6% Men 0.5% Not reported/   not disclosed Representation data 102-8, 405-1  Gender  GlobalRepresentation data 405-Race/ethnicity  U.S. only 69.0% White 11.8% Hispanic or  Latino/a 6.6% Black or African  American 6.5% Asian 6.1% Additional races/ ethnicities* 79.2% White 4.8% Hispanic or  Latino/a 2.2% Black or African  American 9.5% Asian 4.3% Additional races/ ethnicities* 87.8% White 1.2% Hispanic or  Latino/a 2.9% Black or African  American 5.2% Asian 2.9% Additional races/ ethnicities*Team  members36.9% Women 62.2% Men 0.9% Not reported/   not disclosed VP+23.0% Women 77.0% Men *Includes American Indian, Native Alaskan, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, two or more races, and not disclosed.
Note: Including Wright Medical.
Does not include Puerto Rico.
Diversity data for our Board of Directors can be found in our 2020 Proxy statement.Managers  and   DirectorsTeam  members VP+35.7% Women 63.5% Men 0.8% Not reported/   not disclosedOverall 71.5% White 10.1% Hispanic or  Latino/a 5.5% Black or African  American 7.2% Asian 5.7% Additional races/ ethnicities*Overall Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactCOVID-19: Our response efforts People are at the heart of what we do.
COVID-19  doesn’t change that.
Stryker remains focused on what  we do best to support healthcare professionals on the  front lines, put people first and continue delivering on  our mission to make healthcare better.
We continue to meet the global pandemic challenge  with resilience and flexibility, taking action to protect  our employees, fulfilling our customers’ needs so they  can focus on taking care of patients and working to  ensure health and safety in communities.
Protecting employees Business continuity and emergency action  planning processes — already a part of our way of  doing business — served as a foundation for our  response planning.
We implemented protocols  in our China locations in January, including  temperature monitoring, masks, physical distancing  and notifications.
As the pandemic moved across  Europe, by March it became increasingly clear that  an enterprise approach was necessary to protect  employees worldwide.
We quickly moved to halt   travel and issue work-from-home guidance.Our Trauma & Extremities sales representatives were  on hand to see healthcare heroes brave the early days  in some of the world’s hardest-hit areas.
It quickly  became apparent that our customers on the front lines  needed us to work and continue fulfilling their needs.
We issued personal protective equipment (PPE) for all  employees with essential designation working on-site  at our facilities or in healthcare settings and launched  a self-assessment screening process that included  in-person checks at our facilities and an app for our  field-based personnel.
For our on-site critical employees who continued to  come into Stryker facilities worldwide to make the  essential products our customers need, we reimagined  workspaces and staggered breaks to support physical  distancing where possible.
Our personal exposure and  reporting guidelines helped us utilize quarantines  effectively to keep operations running while  prioritizing the health and safety of our employees.
Local Incident Response Teams (LIRT), rolling up to  a Centralized Incident Response Team (CIRT), were  put in place to orchestrate a coordinated response.
We  established field protocols, including rapid testing of  employees 48 hours before travel, to enable business to  continue to meet customers’ needs.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactBy December, rapid testing was in use by more than 2,000 field-based  sales personnel and expanding weekly.
Efforts are underway to  increase the program to include more Stryker employees as returning  to work at a physical site may become possible for those individuals  who pivoted to working remotely.
Our response is evolving to include  a vaccination strategy involving a wealth of talented clinical and  scientific people at Stryker.
The combination of our educational and evidence-based strategy,  followed by our proactive testing-response strategy, enabled us to  support our customers and protect our employees.
Satisfying customers’ needs The landscape continues to evolve, and we continue to adapt to meet  our customers’ needs.
We’ve increased our production of products  to help people during the crisis, including hygiene, disinfecting and  surgical protection products, as well as hospital beds, stretchers and  defibrillators.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impact©Yonemori HospitalBy leveraging our in-house research and development  experts, we’ve launched new products essential for the  COVID-19 response.
We’ve also actively worked with  our industry trade association and regulatory bodies to  accelerate the authorization and approvals for personal  protection equipment.
To help our customers concerned about the potential  for a sudden flood of patients — and not enough beds  on hand to meet the projected demand — Stryker raced  to develop a new low-cost, limited-release Emergency  Relief Bed (ERB) to serve those on the front lines of  the global pandemic, ranging from hospital emergency  departments to triage and pop-up areas of care.
Within  just seven days of conceiving the idea, employees had  assembled thousands of ERBs, ready to be delivered to  some of the hardest-hit locations, including New York.
In August, we donated 22,500 Emergency Relief Bed  (ERB) kits to Project C.U.R.E., the largest provider of  donated medical supplies and equipment to developing  countries worldwide.
We use technology in new ways to connect with  customers and meet their needs, and continue to hold  meetings and education events virtually (see Medical  Education page 29).Keeping communities safe Inspired by healthcare providers and one another,  our employees use their time, talent and resources to  offer support beyond their daily roles at Stryker.
Our  people donated blood through the Red Cross to help  alleviate shortages and support the Sleeves Up virtual  campaign when they could not leave their homes to  donate blood.
Employees are giving to local charities  and global organizations, including the World Health  Organization’s COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund and  the Red Cross.
They are engaging in virtual volunteer  opportunities to support nonprofits locally and around  the globe.
The scope and duration of the pandemic remain  uncertain.
Visit our COVID-19 Resource Center  for  specific updates related to our products, services and  employee response.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactOliver “Ollie” Forbes Morgan Goldsmith From behind-the-scenes to   the front line  As patient counts at hospitals surged, the COVID-19  pandemic presented some Stryker employees with an  opportunity to answer the call for trained healthcare  professionals to rejoin the front lines.
In April, Morgan Goldsmith volunteered in New York  at the Ryan Larkin Field Hospital (RLFH), constructed  underneath the Columbia University sports   complex’s bubbled dome, as an extension of New York- Presbyterian.
During the five weeks she spent there,  Morgan helped lead a team of 12 volunteer healthcare  workers from across the U.S. “The need for clinicians  was greater than ever before,” Morgan said.
“ As a  nurse, I felt I had a responsibility to take care of fellow  clinicians and their patients.”  Oliver “Ollie” Forbes, a former paramedic, works for  our trauma team in Victoria, Australia, but took a  chance to be redeployed to help support the healthcare  system and emergency services.
“When Stryker  provided the opportunity to return to work in the  community for a period of time, I morally felt it was  the right thing to do,” Ollie said.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactGlobalization Rising above challenges to grow in Korea When the Himchan Group, one of the largest individual private hospital  groups in Korea, specializing in joint replacement and robotic-assisted  procedures, wanted to purchase four Mako Systems in mid-2020,   Stryker teams from Korea and their colleagues in Hong Kong and Taiwan  worked together to overcome the challenges associated with working  in a COVID-19 environment, deliver their customers’ expectations and  commercialize the technology in Korea.
First, Kevin Shim, managing  director of Korea, developed a financial solution that allowed the group to  fund the Systems, linking to volume commitments.
Next, in accordance  with pandemic-related travel restrictions, the team facilitated training in  Korea, working quickly to meet the installation deadlines.
Certified trainers  Tony Suen from Hong Kong, Grace Shak from Singapore and Casey Kuo from  Taiwan left their families for six weeks to travel to Korea to conduct hands- on coaching to all 36 surgeons at the hospital.
Lastly, Jeff Lee, business  lead for Mako in Korea, coordinated with East Asia, APAC and the design  division to ensure a great first-customer experience.
Himchan Group went  live with their first Mako surgery in July 2020 and has since conducted  more than 1,000 procedures.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Social impactOur world is changing due at least in part to a warming climate, and we are stepping  up to meet the resulting challenges.
“ As a healthcare company, it is impossible not to  recognize the connection between the planet’s health and ours,” says Declan Daly,  Director, Operations Support, Ireland Operations.
“We have only one earth — we  must do what we can to care for it.”  In 2020, we stepped up to the challenge — developing the roadmap to adopt an  ambitious carbon reduction goal.
The result is a commitment to achieve a   20 percent reduction in carbon emissions (scopes 1 and 2) by 2024 and for all  Stryker facilities to be carbon neutral (scopes 1 and 2) by 2030.
“This is a huge challenge,” says Erol Odabasi, Director, Corporate Sustainability,   “and we are finding ways to address it.
We are taking action.”  We have already made great strides toward reducing our carbon footprint.
In 2019,  our energy contracts in Ireland were approaching their expiration.
Our Ireland  Operations and our Indirect Procurement teams worked together to look   for alternative options with renewable electricity.
The result was a 5-year contract  with one of the largest suppliers in Ireland to purchase electricity generated by wind  turbine farms.
Carbon neutrality: Our journey to ©Brookfield Renewable Ireland Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainability*Scope 1 (direct site emissions) and Scope 2 (electricity use) carbon emissions; baseline year 2019; excludes Wright Medical reduction by 2024*   for all Stryker facilities20% by 2030*   for all Stryker facilitiesNeutralCarbon neutrality goalsvariable speed drives and motors on select equipment,”  said Niall Walsh, Senior Operations Manager, Joint  Replacement.
“We have installed heat recovery  systems to reduce natural gas usage and undertaken an  aggressive program to decommission old or redundant  equipment, replacing it with more energy-efficient  machines.
These efforts have been very successful in  reducing our energy demands.” Engaging our employees will be critical.
Like many of  our global facilities, the teams in Ireland are installing  electric charging stations and working with other  businesses and the government to facilitate and  promote public transport instead of personal cars.
“To  truly succeed, we have to change individual behavior,”  said Erol Odabasi.
“The increased awareness of climate  change is helping; employees are highly engaged and  submitting many exciting ideas that can be impactful  to reducing Stryker’s carbon footprint.
This is how we  can set a tone across all our facilities, harnessing all  these initiatives.
It’s very exciting to be part of it.”“This was the right thing to do, environmentally, and  as it turns out, financially,” said Mike Sladen-York,  Senior Director, Indirect Procurement.
“The renewable  energy contract not only substantially reduces the  carbon footprint of operations in Ireland but also locks  in a long-term electricity cost saving as well.
We are  also proud to support the local economy by utilizing  renewable power generated from wind turbine farms  located in Ireland.” The move reduces the Irish operations footprint by  about 20,000 tons of carbon emissions per year, the  equivalent of removing 4,000 cars from the road,  realizing an overall reduction of 10 percent of Stryker’s  scopes 1 and 2 carbon emissions.
And our GQO sites  in Duisburg, Germany are powered by hydroelectric  energy sourced from Norway.
As of the end of 2020,  renewable energy supplies over 15 percent of our  electricity use across Stryker.
To achieve our new goals, we will also need to  continue to explore new energy efficiency and  conservation opportunities.
“ At our Irish facilities, we  have aggressively pursued energy conservation and  efficiency efforts, including installing LED lighting  and light sensors throughout all facilities and using  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainabilityEnvironment As a healthcare  company, we know   that we make choices  that affect the health  of the planet, and  ultimately, human  health  As a healthcare company, we know that we make  choices that affect the health of the planet, and  ultimately, human health.
That is why, in 2020, we  elected to set several bold new goals, including to  achieve a 20 percent reduction in carbon emissions  (scopes 1 and 2) by 2024 and to be carbon neutral for  all Stryker facilities (scopes 1 and 2) by 2030.
Guided by our Environmental, Health and Safety  (EHS) Policy, we are in the process of aligning or  certifying our facilities to the ISO14001 standard,  with 13 certified as of the end of 2020.
And our newly  implemented EHS software management system  is enabling the consolidation and tracking of data  globally.
We anticipate that these improvements  will enable us to report consolidated environmental  performance metrics in 2021.
The vice president, global manufacturing and  operations (GQO), oversees our manufacturing  operations facilities.
Each facility is responsible for  its EHS compliance which is managed by an assigned  EHS point of contact (POC) who also supports the GQO  EHS program.
The GQO EHS director, sustainability  director and regional managers support the EHS POCs.  The sustainability director reports to the vice president  of quality assurance and is responsible for developing  and implementing the strategy to manage and reduce  the environmental impact of Stryker’s value chain,  including climate-related issues.
103-2Energy and carbon To achieve our carbon emission goals,  we know we have work to do.
Our  carbon reduction commitments will  largely be met through continued energy  efficiency investments and increasing  renewable energy use through long-term  power purchase agreements.
We are actively pursuing  these opportunities through continued investment in:  • Installation of more energy-efficient LED lighting in  strategic locations  • Temperature/humidity modifications and air  exchanges in cleanrooms  • Occupancy sensors in offices and common spaces to  control lighting  • Transitioning electricity usage to more renewable  energy sources  • Redirecting waste heat from operations to reduce  natural gas usage for water heating  • Energy audits to identify areas of opportunity for  conservation  For more information on Stryker’s greenhouse gas  emissions (scope 1 and 2) and energy consumption,  please click here for the 2020 energy and carbon  supplement.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainabilityGQO sites in   Germany powered by  hydroelectric   energy Highlights of our energy efficiency/conservation efforts  in 2020 or planned for 2021 include:  Tullagreen, Ireland.
Utilized reject heat from site  chiller process to offset natural gas usage.
Offset 85  percent of natural gas consumption at this site and  reduced over 200 tons of carbon emissions.
Arroyo, Puerto Rico.
Installed new air handling  units and resin dryers, and modified the reheat coils  modulation.
The annual carbon emission reduction is  estimated to be over 220 tons.
LED lighting retrofit/occupancy sensors.
Replaced  existing manufacturing floor lighting with LED  retrofits/occupancy sensors in Mahwah, New Jersey   and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, among other sites.
Effective energy-efficiency improvements and  conservation efforts alone will not get us to our goal.
Renewable energy sourcing is critical to our ability  to meet this goal.
We recently signed a renewable  energy power purchase agreement to supply 100  percent of our electricity for our GQO Ireland sites  with renewable energy.
Additionally, we use a majority  hydroelectric energy at our GQO sites in Germany.
Altogether, renewable sources now generate about  15 percent of our electricity use at GQO sites.
Going  forward, we are exploring additional power purchase  agreements to meet our carbon reduction goals.
We have established a 2019 baseline for our scopes  1 and 2 carbon emissions and our goals for scopes 1  and 2 are based on the Science Based Target initiative  (SBTi) guidelines.
We are committed to establishing  a scope 3 emissions baseline in 2021 and setting and  disclosing a science-based target.
We have initiated a review of our climate change risks  and opportunities and anticipate future reporting will  include recommendations developed by the Task Force  on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in  four areas: governance, strategy, risk management and  metrics and targets.
Stryker publicly reports GHG emissions data and  reduction initiatives annually through the Carbon  Disclosure Project (CDP).
CDP is an internationally  recognized nonprofit organization that collects and  reports environmental metrics.
Currently, Stryker  reports its direct and indirect energy use and emissions  from our manufacturing operations and business  travel.
In 2020 Stryker received a C score from the CDP .
Waste Stryker is committed to the protection  of our environment through the  elimination of waste.
Historically, we  have focused on source reduction,  waste minimization and recycling  improvements.
To fully understand the waste  generated from our manufacturing processes, we  monitor and measure the waste generated throughout  the GQO network.
We use waste generation data to  drive waste minimization projects locally.
In 2020, we continued our efforts to reduce both  what we use and what we leave behind.
We are  working to verify our data collection results and  establish waste reduction goals in 2021.
Some of our  businesses have already taken this step, Stryker’s  Sustainability Solutions division has set a goal to  reduce manufacturing waste by 20 percent by 2025.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainabilityIn 2020, each of our manufacturing facilities had  a goal to reduce their waste by 10 percent.
While  performance on this goal varied by plant location,  many were able to make progress.
Selected highlights  include:  Tullagreen, Ireland  • Green waste: Approximately 75 tons disposed of at  a waste-to-energy facility, avoiding landfill.
• Process sludge: Approximately 30 tons processed  to make eco-concrete, reducing both waste product  being landfilled and the raw materials needed to  make the concrete.
Limerick, Ireland • Process sludge: Reduced waste product disposed of  by 70 percent by removing water content, enabling  the remaining sludge to be sent for energy recovery.
Mahwah, NJ, U.S.  • Waste plastic chips: Shipped to another company  for use as a raw material.
Anngrove, Ireland • Food waste: Diverted three tons of composting food  waste from landfill to energy recovery.
• Argon reduction: Reduced argon use in  LRM manufacturing by 41 percent through  standardization of equipment settings.
Water We recognize that water is a precious  resource that must be conserved and  protected.
We use water to create our  products and cool equipment, and we  monitor our wastewaters, as required.
Water reclamation and reuse initiatives can provide  cost savings, improve environmental performance and  reduce compliance risk through minimization.
Water  consumption and water discharge data are collected to  understand our impacts and opportunities better.
In  2020, we began work to set a baseline for our water  use to allow for more efficient tracking and reporting  in future years.
Transportation and logistics Transportation of our products is a component of our  scope 3 carbon emissions, and one we are focused on  reducing.
In 2020, Stryker took the opportunity to  examine shipping processes, which resulted in a shift  to more sustainable modes such as sea freight.
We  also implemented a regular evaluation of our supply  chain networks to ensure shipments are sent via the  most direct routes to the end customers, ultimately  driving fewer trips.
Another successful effort involved  direct shipping product from Thailand to the U.S.  using ocean freight; we achieved a 99 percent decrease  in carbon emissions by eliminating the previous  airfreight route which shipped through our European  Distribution Centre.Approximately 300 carriers are used to move our  products around the globe, and we’re focused on  rationalizing this base to include the most carbon- efficient providers.
Going forward, we continue to  optimize our transportation networks, focusing on the  continued reduction of carbon emissions.
Opportunities  include network assessments, collaborating with our  product development teams to fully utilize the space in  our boxes to reduce packaging; partnering on carbon  reduction initiatives such as UPS’s Carbon Neutral  program, in which Stryker’s Sustainability Solutions  division participates; and joining programs such as   the U.S. EPA SmartWay program, which we initiated  in 2020.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainabilityCertifying our facilities Our offices and manufacturing facilities have an impact, too, and we are working with accrediting organizations to evaluate and cer tify the environmental impact and  sustainability of our buildings.
The following Stryker locations have been certified by Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), a green building rating system,  and Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), a sustainability performance rating system:  LEED:  Suzhou, China  Portage, MI, U.S. (3)  Mahwah, NJ, U.S. Cary, IL, U.S. Flower Mound, TX, U.S.  Arroyo, Puerto Rico, U.S.  San Jose, CA, U.S.  Hong Kong, China  Freiburg, Germany BREEAM:  Venlo, Netherlands  Newbury, Berkshire, U.K. Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainabilityA new Instruments  facility, located in  Portage, Michigan,  features a customer  experience center,  a showroom, an  R&D and bio-skills  lab, plus space for  sales, marketing and  support functions.
The space, which  inspires innovation,  also meets LEED Silver  certification status,  making the new  facility a physical  depiction of living our  company’s mission.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainabilityProduct design  and lifecycle management We recognize that our products, throughout their  lifecycle, leave a footprint on our world and we are  working to reduce the impact.
Our Sustainability  Solutions division, Research and Development and  GQO teams worldwide use environmentally responsible  materials and practices where possible, supporting  sustainability, improving safety and meeting customer  requests for more sustainable products.
Stryker has developed a comprehensive program  to drive the environmentally compliant design and  management of our products and packaging.
We have  established company-level processes to ensure that  product designs meet applicable global regulations  and standards and the required safety and quality  standards set by regulatory agencies.
Our product  environmental procedures and our Regulated  Substances List (RSL) ensure that compliance with  restricted substance regulations such as RoHS  and REACH, eliminating chemicals of concern,  environmentally sound management of our products  at end of life and energy efficiency are all integral  components of the product development process.
We design our new product launches according to the  latest regulations and standards and review existing  products according to an established process.
SASB Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainabilityOver the past five years: *Baseline year 2019saved by customers  through reprocessing  programs$988M waste diverted from  landfills25M lbs.As part of their 2025 goals, Sustainability Solutions  is committed to evaluating all new products coming  through the new product development pipeline using  the Redesigned for Sustainability initiative.
They will  also work to reduce their manufacturing waste by  20%.* Additive Manufacturing Another example of innovative product design is  Additive Manufacturing (AM), also known as 3D  Printing.
AM provides design freedom for new medical  devices far beyond traditional processes, and Stryker  has developed new implant products across multiple  divisions utilizing the technology.
Stryker is recognized  in the medical device industry as a leader in scaling the  implementation of AM.
In 2020, we initiated a lifecycle analysis of the two  production processes to calculate and define the  sustainability benefits of our additive manufacturing  process.
To further define and promote the  environmental benefits of AM over traditional  methods of manufacturing, Stryker joined the Additive  Manufacturing Green Trade Association (AMGTA) in  2020.
The AMGTA is a global trade group created to  promote the environmental benefits of AM, and Stryker  is one of twelve leading companies to have joined the  organization to advance sustainability in AM.
Component design  • Replaced a traditional plastic component on some  models with bio-based plastic  • Replaced Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tubing with   PVC-free tubing  Packaging  • Reduced packaging weight by 34 percent compared  to the original packaging  • Increased recycled content and recyclability of  packaging  Manufacturing  • Reduced water used in the batch cleaning process by  164 gallons Stryker’s Sustainability Solutions Stryker’s Sustainability Solutions division is the  leading provider of reprocessing and remanufacturing  services for single-use medical devices.
Hospitals  utilize our advanced collection system to collect  devices.
We inspect, clean, test, sterilize and package  the medical devices for repeated safe clinical use.
More than 21 types of devices are collected and  reprocessed, diverting the waste from landfills, helping  to support a circular economy.
Over the past five years  Sustainability Solutions has helped customers save  $988 million and divert 25 million pounds of waste  from the landfill.
SASB In 2020, Sustainability Solutions launched Redesigned  for Sustainability, an initiative to make environmental  improvements throughout the entire reprocessing  lifecycle.
The focus is on six priority areas: sourcing,  manufacturing, component design, material and  chemical use, waste solutions and packaging.
Developed with input from our customers, Redesigned  for Sustainability is our commitment to deliver  exceptional products that have less impact on the  environment.
As part of the initiative, internal new  product development teams receive education on  incorporating sustainable design into projects, taking  into account the device’s entire lifecycle.
The reprocessed MyoSure tissue removal device is our  flagship device that incorporates our Redesigned for  Sustainability principles.
We have made substantial  environmental improvements in three areas:  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Environmental sustainabilityAbout this report Forward-looking  statements Stryker’s 2020 Comprehensive Report combines our Annual Review with our  Corporate Responsibility Report, providing an integrated picture of our performance.
102-49 Our first Annual Corporate Responsibility Review was published in 2019, and  a 2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Update was published in the fall  of 2020.
102-This is Stryker’s second published yearly report containing information on our  Corporate Responsibility performance and contains data that pertains to calendar  year 2020.
Further reporting on other matters specific to financial performance can  be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
102-50; 102-This report is informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, and we  include a GRI Index that specifies where content references specific disclosures.
102-54 A formal materiality assessment is planned for 2021, which will enable  additional reporting against the GRI Standards in future reports.
We also include  information sought by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index,  providing disclosures against relevant SASB Standards.
The data contained in this report was reviewed by internal subject matter experts as  well as Stryker’s leadership team.
We believe this information accurately represents  our performance in 2020.
We welcome your questions and feedback on this report.
Please contact us at CR@stryker.com.
102-53This Report contains information that includes or is based on forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws that are subject  to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ  materially from those expressed or implied in such statements.
Such factors include,  but are not limited to: the impact on our operations and financial results of the  COVID-19 pandemic and any related policies and actions by governments or other  third parties; unexpected liabilities, costs, charges or expenses in connection with  the acquisition of Wright Medical Group N.V .
(“Wright”); the effects of the Wright  acquisition on the parties' relationships with employees, customers, other business  partners or governmental entities; weakening of economic conditions that could  adversely affect the level of demand for our products; pricing pressures generally,  including cost-containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or  demand for our products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and  regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies  and otherwise that affect U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of new  products, including Wright products; potential supply disruptions; changes in  reimbursement levels from third-party payors; a significant increase in product  liability claims; the ultimate total cost with respect to recall-related matters; the  impact of investigative and legal proceedings and compliance risks; resolution of tax  audits; the impact of the federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare  system; costs to comply with medical device regulations; changes in financial  markets; changes in the competitive environment; our ability to integrate and  realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions in full or at all or within the e xpected  timeframes, including the acquisition of Wright; and our ability to realize anticipated  cost savings.
Additional information concerning these and other factors is contained  in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our  Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
We disclaim any  intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement  to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances  on which those expectations may be based, or that affect the likelihood that actual  results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryDisclosure Description Section Links/Comments General disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization Who we are Stryker Corporation 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Who we are 102-3 Location of headquarters Who we are 102-4 Location of operations Who we are 102-5 Ownership and legal form Who we are 102-6 Markets served Who we are; 2020 10K 102-7 Scale of the organization Financial highlights 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Diversity, equity and  inclusion 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO letter 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities CEO letter 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Governance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Business ethics and  ethical marketing 102-18 Governance structure Governance In February 2021, we amended our Governance and  Nominating Committee Charter to give this Board  Committee oversight responsibility of corporate  responsibility matters.
102-19 Delegating authority Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics GovernanceGRI index This material references the title and publication year of the standard, as shown, for each standard used.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryDisclosure Description Section Links/Comments 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics Governance; Proxy 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Proxy 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Proxy 102-25 Conflicts of interest Proxy 102-26 Role of highest gov body in setting purpose, values and strategy Proxy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Governance; Proxy 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Proxy 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts Governance; Proxy 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Proxy 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics Governance; Proxy 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Governance; Proxy 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Business ethics and  ethical marketingEthics hotline is referenced in our public policies 102-35 Remuneration policies Proxy 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Proxy 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Proxy Our shareholders vote annually on executive pay.
We  report the results on a Form 8-K filed with the SEC after  the shareholders meeting and in our Annual Proxy.
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Proxy The proxy disclosed CEO pay ratio amount complies with  US SEC regulations, which requires the comparison of  CEO pay to be made to median employee for our global  employee population.
We do not provide added disclosure  at this time.
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Proxy We do not currently disclose this information.
102-49 Changes in reporting About this report Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryDisclosure Description Section Links/Comments 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report 102-55 GRI content index GRI index Management approach 103-2 Management of Disclosure Approach Various Anti-corruption 103-2 Management of Disclosure Approach Business ethics and  ethical marketing 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Business ethics and  ethical marketing 205-2 Communication/training RE anti-corruption policies and procedures Business ethics and  ethical marketing Anti-competitive Behavior 103-2 Management of Disclosure Approach Business ethics and  ethical marketing 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, monopoly practices Business ethics and  ethical marketing Environment 103-2 Management of Disclosure Approach Environment;  throughout report Occupational Safety and Health Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryDisclosure Description Section Links/Comments 103-2 Management of Disclosure Approach Employee safety 403-1 Occupational Health & Safety Management System Employee safety Our management system is applicable to all Global  Quality and Operations (GQO) Stryker manufacturing  employees, as well as to workers who are not employees  but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by  Stryker.
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system Employee safety Approximately 16,000 employees, or 37% of our  workforce, are covered by our EHS management system.
Non GQO operations and employees are not covered by  the EHS management system.
GQO industrial workplaces  are audited annually to ensure compliance with local,  national and international EHS law.
403-9 Work-related Injuries Employee safety a.
For all employees: Employee safety • The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; • The number and rate of recordable work-related injuries; Employee safety c.
The work-related hazards that pose a risk of high-consequence injury Employee safety 4 of 99 injuries were considered category 5   severity injuries d.
Any actions taken or underway to eliminate other work-related hazards and  minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls.Actions taken in 2020 to eliminate hazards include  comprehensive Lock Out Tag Out assessment of all  manufacturing equipment, comprehensive evaluation  of machine guarding and implementation of corrective  actions, where required.
In 2021 we plan to implement  a global requirement to conduct job hazard assessments,  and to conduct JHAs for any manufacturing task that  has resulted in a recordable injury and for any task with  the potential of causing severe injury to employees.
e.
Whether the rates have been calculated based on 200,000 or 1,000,000 hours  worked.200,f.
Whether and, if so, why any workers have been excluded from this disclosure,  including the types of worker excludedThis disclosure does not include safety data for non GQO  employees, as only GQO employees are covered by the  EHS management system.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryDisclosure Description Section Links/Comments 403-10 Work-related ill health Stryker has not experienced incidents of work-related  ill health, with the exception of COVID-19, which is  discussed in the Social Impact section of this report.
Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Employee training  and development 404-3 % of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Employee training  and development100% Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-2 Management of Disclosure Approach Diversity, equity and  inclusion 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity, equity and  inclusionDiversity data for our Board of Directors is included  in our Annual Proxy.
In 2020, of the nine members of  Stryker's leadership team, 22% are women, and 33%   are ethnically diverse (U.S.).
Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken We take internal concerns seriously.
Our internal  standards are higher than legal expectations and we  take appropriate corrective action when we believe our  policies have been violated.
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective  bargaining may be at riskSupply chain  management  Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Supply chain  management  Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsor y labor Supply chain  management  Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryDisclosure Description Section Links/Comments Human Rights Assessment 103-2 Management of Disclosure Approach Business ethics and  ethical marketing 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Supply chain  managementAvailability of training data information  Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Product quality 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and  servicesThere were zero incidents of non-compliance concerning  the health and safety impacts of products and services.
Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Product quality 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling There were zero incidents of non-compliance concerning  product and service information and labeling.
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications There were zero incidents of non-compliance concerning  marketing communications.
Socioeconomic Compliance 103-2 Management of Disclosure Approach Business ethics and  ethical marketing 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Business ethics and  ethical marketing Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryCode Accounting Metric Section Links/Comments Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled Ethical Marketing HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products Business ethics and  ethical marketing Product Design & Lifecycle HC-MS-410a.1. Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health  considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for  sustainable productsProduct design and  lifecycle management HC-MS-410a.2. Total amount of products accepted for takeback and reused, recycled, or donated,  broken down by: (1) devices and equipment and (2) suppliesProduct design and  lifecycle managementWe report the number of medical devices collected for  recycling through our Stryker Sustainable Solutions  business.
Supply Chain Management HC-MS-430a.1. Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in  third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product qualityProduct design and  lifecycle managementFor internal Stryker sites, all of our manufacturing  facilities are ISO 13485 certified via third-party audit  programs.
Information on Tier I suppliers is not  compiled at this time.
HC-MS-430a.3. Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials Supply chain  management Business Ethics HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with healthcare professionals Medical educationSASB index Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryRefer to our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K, available at stryker.com, for additional information regarding our non-GAAP financial measures.Reconciliation of the Most Directly Comparable GAAP Financial Measure to Non-GAAP Financial Measure Net earnings ($ millions) Net earnings per diluted share 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reported  $1,439  $1,647  $1,020  $3,553  $2,083  $1,599  $3.78  $4.35  $2.68  $9.34  $5.48  $4.20  Acquisition and integration-related charges: Inventory stepped-up to fair value  4  23  20  9  51  36  0.01  0.06  0.05  0.02  0.13  0.10  Other acquisition and integration-related  20  77  31  90  160  157  0.05  0.20  0.09  0.24  0.42  0.41  Amortization of purchased intangible assets  147  221  250  338  375  381  0.39  0.59  0.67  0.89  0.99  1.00  Restructuring-related and other charges  97  98  155  179  180  397  0.26  0.26  0.41  0.47  0.47  1.04  Medical device regulations – – –  10  48  63 – – –  0.03  0.13  0.17  Recall-related matters  210  127  131  18  154  13  0.55  0.34  0.34  0.05  0.41  0.03  Regulatory and legal matters  (46)  (7)  25  141  (33)  8   (0.12)  (0.02)  0.06  0.37  (0.09)  0.02  Tax matters  78  8  833  (1,559)  121  173  0.20  0.02  2.19  (4.10)  0.32  0.46  Adjusted $1,949  $2,194  $2,465  $2,779  $3,139  $2,827  $5.12  $5.80  $6.49  $7.31  $8.26  $7.43  Effective tax rate — Reported 17.1% 14.3% 50.6% (50.8%) 18.7% 18.2% Effective tax rate — Adjusted 17.3% 17.3% 15.6% 16.7% 15.8% 12.6% Weighted average diluted shares outstanding (millions) 380.9 378.5 380.1 380.3 379.9 380.Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summaryProducts may not be available in all markets.
Product availability is subject to the regulatory  and/or medical practices in individual markets.
This report contains many of the valuable  trademarks owned and/or used by Stryker  and our subsidiaries and affiliates in the U.S.  and internationally to distinguish products  and services of outstanding quality.
All other  trademarks featured herein are the property of  their respective owners.
This document is governed solely by applicable  U.S. laws and governmental regulations.
Laws, regulations, and policies concerning  reimbursement are complex, subject to change,  and updated regularly.
© 2021 Stryker | 2825 Airview Boulevard | Kalamazoo, MI 49002 USA | stryker.com | SYK CORP 2021-03-09 Rev.
1Design by Addison  www.addison.comEndnotes 1  MES2DF-ST-1_23395 Mesa 2 Deformity Surgical Technique   The following disclaimers apply to the entire story on pages 3-4: In accordance with the labeling for the Stryker’s Mesa 2 Deformity  Spinal System, patient selection and compliance is extremely important.
The patient must be made aware of the limitations of the  implant and that physical activity and load bearing have been implicated in premature loosening, bending or fracture of internal  fixation devices.
The patient should understand that a metallic implant is not as strong as a normal, healthy bone and will fracture  under normal load bearing in the absence of complete bone healing.
An active, debilitated or uncooperative patient who cannot  properly restrict activities may be at particular risk during postoperative rehabilitation.
All surgery carries risk.
See your orthopaedic surgeon to discuss your potential benefits and risks.
Not all patients will have the same  post-operative recovery and activity level.
Individual results vary.
Drs.
Boachie-Adjei and Blakemore are paid consultants of Stryker.
The opinions expressed by Drs.
Boachie-Adjei and Blakemore are  those of Drs.
Boachie-Adjei and Blakemore and not necessarily those of Stryker.
Individual experiences may vary.
2   List of Device Category Codes for Present or Previous Pass-Through Payment and Related Definitions.
CMS.gov.
Published 1 JUL 2020.
https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-Service-Payment/HospitalOutpatientPPS/Downloads/Complet-list-DeviceCats- OPPS.pdf.
3  Kayani B, Konan S, Tahmassebi J, Pietrzak JRT, Haddad FS.
Robotic-arm assisted total knee arthroplasty is associated with improved  early functional recovery and reduced time to hospital discharge compared with conventional jig-based total knee arthroplasty: a  prospective cohort study.
Bone Joint J.
2018;100-B(7):930-937.
Doi:10.1302/0301-620X.100B7.BJJ-2017-1449.R1.
4  Kayani B, Konan S, Pietrzak JRT, Haddad FS.
Iatrogenic bone and soft tissue trauma in robotic-arm assisted total knee arthroplasty  compared with conventional jig-based total knee arthroplasty: a prospective cohort study and validation of a new classification  system.
J Arthroplasty.
2018;33(8):2496-2501.
Doi:10.1016/j.arth.2018.03.042.
Stryker | 2020 Comprehensive Report Data summary