Table of contents
2021 in review
Game-changing innovations  ..................................................................... 2
Our company  ............................................................................................. 5
A message from Stryker Chair and CEO  ................................................... 6
Innovating for growth  ............................................................................. 10
Financial highlights  ................................................................................. 12
Our corporate responsibility journey  ..................................................... 14
Stronger peopleHealthcare providers and patients
 ......................................................... 17
Employees  ................................................................................................ 24
Communities  ............................................................................................ 38
Good businessGovernance
 .............................................................................................. 42
Information security and privacy  .......................................................... 47Business ethics and ethical marketing  ................................................... 49
Product quality and safety  ...................................................................... 53
Supply chain management  ...................................................................... 56
Healthier planetOperational impact
 .................................................................................. 61
Product design and lifecycle management  ............................................. 69
Data summaryReferences
 ................................................................................................ 72
About this report  ..................................................................................... 75
Legal disclaimers  ..................................................................................... 76
Non-GAAP reconciliation  ........................................................................ 77
1
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewPatient impact
Game-changing
innovations 
With the help of Blueprint technology, a surgeon restores the shoulder—
and the hope—of a former Major League Baseball (MLB) pitcher.
One moment, Jeff Brantley was reaching into the 
refrigerator for a carton of milk. The next, a jolt of pain overtook his extended right arm. The      carton came crashing to the floor as his son  
  looked on in surprise.
          That same arm used to throw   
         strike after strik e during Jeff’s  
       14 seasons as a relief pitcher.   
                     Now a broadcaster for the  
        Cincinnati Reds, the baseball   
      great led the National League in  
               saves in 1996, played in the MLB  
            All-Star Game in 1990 and was  
           inducted into the Mississippi Sports  Hall of Fame in 2010. As his baseball career progressed, though, Jeff’s shoulder  
slowly deteriorated. 
“The problem that you have being a pitcher is  
the repetitive motion on one side of your body, 
over and over and over. Especially with your  
shoulder and elbow,” Jeff says. By his fifties, despite having undergone multiple surgeries,  
he was plagued by weakness and pain. 
“I was really concerned because I’m right-
handed,” Jeff says. “I can’t even get a carton of milk out of the refrigerator? I’m a pro athlete.  I should be able to do that in my sleep.”  The problem that you 
have being a pitcher is the repetitive motion on one side of your body, over and over and over. Especially with your shoulder and elbow.” 
Jeff Brantley
Patient
2
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewDesperate to alleviate the pain and to finally play catch 
with his son, Jeff consulted longtime Cincinnati Reds 
medical director Dr. Tim Kremchek, who referred him to  Dr. Andrew Razzano. 
Dr. Razzano—a knee, shoulder and elbow specialist—
proposed a solution: shoulder arthroplasty, commonly known as total shoulder replacement. Jeff was hesitant, but Dr. Razzano gave him confidence by using Stryker’s Blueprint 3D Planning software to walk him through the procedure from every angle. Beyond aiding in patient communication, Dr. Razzano and many other orthopaedic surgeons use Blueprint to prepare for operations by visualizing each procedure in advance. This allows for precise and reproducible 3D measurements and leads to improved decision-making, Dr. Razzano says.
1,2,3 “If, 
in the O.R., something happens and you have to change your plan, you’ve already done it in a virtual model. You don’t have to think as much on the fly.”
Thousands of miles 
away, Dr. Ruth Delaney recently became the first surgeon in Ireland to use Blueprint’s new Mixed Reality software. Originally unveiled by Wright Medical—which Stryker acquired in November 2020—the latest generation of Blueprint allows doctors to interact with their 3D pre-operative plan as they perform surgery  
(see sidebar below).
Introducing Blueprint Mixed Reality  
 
Developed by pioneering orthopaedic surgeons from around the globe, the latest generation of Stryker’s Blueprint technology is transforming the way shoulder surgeries are performed. Using a mixed reality headset, the software allows surgeons to view 3D versions of their patients’ pre-operative plans and anatomy while in the operating room. “When we first started on the journey to create this software, we likened it to the difference between a smartphone and a flip phone,” says Dr. Jon J.P . Warner, co-chief of shoulder services at Boston Shoulder Institute. After decades of relying on 2D CT scans, Blueprint  Mixed Reality puts critical patient information at  surgeons’ fingertips. 
3
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in review“With Mixed Reality, we can see our plans in real time in front of our faces 
when we operate. It is dynamic, so you can see a patient’s anatomy in a lot of detail,” says Dr. Delaney. “What was interesting the first day that I used it was that it didn’t interfere with my surgery or distract me.”
Dr. Razzano agrees. “What Mixed Reality means to me is that you’re using it 
intraoperatively in real time. It’s not diverting your focus to go look at the computer again,” he says. 
After his operation with Dr. Razzano, Jeff began to feel improvement in about 
two weeks. A few months into the rehabilitation process, he noticed a dramatic difference and was able to move his shoulder up and down and back and forth. “Now it slides smooth as silk,” Jeff says. 
While Jeff continues to use his shoulder thoughtfully, today he is relieved to 
perform simple tasks like lifting a suitcase and tossing a ball to his son without debilitating pain.
“I’m not trying to throw the ball 90 miles an hour anymore, but if we want  
to go out and play catch, I know I can do it,” he says. “The first time being  
able to go out and throw with my son was great for me. But it was even 
greater for him.”What mixed reality means to me is that  
you’re using it intraoperatively in real time. It’s  not diverting your focus to go look at the  computer again.”  Dr. Andrew Razzano
Knee, shoulder and elbow specialist
All surgery carries risk. The only way to determine whether surgery is appropriate for a patient is after consultation with an orthopaedic surgeon regarding risks and benefits of surgery.  
Not all patients have the same operative recovery and activity level. Individual results vary.
4
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewOur 
company 
Stryker is one of the world’s leading medical technology companies and, 
together with our customers, we are driven to make healthcare better. We offer innovative products and services in Medical and Surgical, Neurotechnology, Orthopaedics and Spine that help improve patient and hospital outcomes. Our specialties
 -Biologics 
 -Craniomaxillofacial 
 -Digital, Robotics and  
 Enabling Technologies
 -Ear, Nose and Throat
 -Emergency and Acute Care
 -Foot and Ankle 
 -Hips 
 -Infrastructure and Integration
 -Interventional Spine
 -Knees 
 -Minimally Invasive and Open  
 Surgical Visualization Solutions -Neurosurgical
 -Neurovascular
 -Power Tools
 -Robotic-Arm Assisted  
 Technology
 -Spinal Implants
 -Sports Medicine
 -Surgical Equipment
 -Sustainability Solutions
 -Trauma
 -Upper ExtremitiesSYK
symbol for our common stock publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange$17.1B
global sales in 2021 
$1.2B
spent on R&D in 2021Kalamazoo, MI, U.S. 
global headquarters
75+
countries including operations in the following geographic areas: the  
U.S. (including Puerto Rico); Europe, Middle East, Africa; Asia Pacific; Canada and countries in the Latin America region
~46,000
employees worldwide  
in 2021 ~4,458
United States patents and 7,199 patents in other countriesGlobal recognition
 - World’s Best Workplaces, Great Place to Work and Fortune
 - Change the World List, Fortune
 - Companies that Care, Great Place to Work and People
 - 100 Best Companies to Work for, Great Place to Work and Fortune
 - World’s Most Admired, Fortune
 - Fortune 500
 - Best Places to Work, Glassdoor
5
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewA message
from Stryker 
Chair and CEO,Kevin A. LoboDear stakeholders,
In 2021, Stryker returned to growth and delivered strong results 
despite the ongoing challenges of the pandemic. I want to thank our customers, whose dedication to patient care in the face of another demanding year continues to inspire our work and whose collaboration keeps us innovating to make healthcare better. I’d also like to thank our employees, whose drive and resilience allowed us to adapt quickly to the changing environment. In particular, our commercial and manufacturing teams have worked tirelessly to support our customers in hospitals, care settings and at our facilities 
across the world. 
Culture and leadership
2021 also marked 80 years since Dr. Homer Stryker, an orthopaedic surgeon, 
founded the company. Our people and culture continue to distinguish us, and they are the reason we are able to mark this anniversary with so many highlights. I’m encouraged that our employees remain highly engaged and that we are making progress with our corporate responsibility initiatives, including diversity, equity and inclusion (see page 24 ). For a fifth consecutive year, 
Fortune named us one of the 25 best workplaces in the world, and many of our global teams were recognized for creating great places to work. Our culture has always been about making a difference, and our employees continue to be the driving force behind our progress and achievements.
6
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewWe had a change to our senior leadership team 
in the fall of 2021. Tim Scannell transitioned from president and chief operating officer, after an outstanding 31-year career at Stryker, into an executive adviser role. With this change, our group presidents have each taken on additional responsibilities. In addition to leading Medical and Surgical and Neurotechnology, Andy Pierce is now also responsible for Corporate Strategy and Asia Pacific. Spencer Stiles is now responsible for Corporate Business Development as well as EMEA, Canada and Latin America, in addition to leading Orthopaedics and Spine. They both now report to me directly. Financial performance
Stryker delivered above-market sales growth with strong earnings and cash flow in 2021, which bolstered our commitment to category leadership across our businesses. This is an excellent result considering the current environment and a testament to our ability to keep growing at the high end of MedTech. 
Our sales grew 19.2 percent from 2020 and 
14.9 percent from 2019, including 7.2 percent organically compared to 2019, which provides a more normal baseline for comparison given the variability caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, including 5.2 percent in the United States and 12.9 percent internationally. Our organic growth included 8.7 percent from increased unit volume and a 1.5 percent impact from lower prices. Our reported net earnings increased 24.7 percent, and our adjusted net earnings increased by  
22.9 percent from 2020.
We delivered approximately $3.3 billion of 
cash from operations. This strong performance reflects the results of our net earnings and continued focus on working capital management. Our effective cash management enabled us to increase our dividend rate by 10.3 percent for the January 2022 payment. 
 
Together with our customers around 
the world, we impact more than 
100 million  
patients annually*  
7
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewThis would not be possible without our 
people, the 46,000 employees from 75+ countries who are passionately driven to deliver remarkable results. We are uniquely positioned to impact these patients across their episode of care journey through our innovative capital, disposable and implant offerings.
* This figure is based on capital, implant and disposable products across the patient episode of care. Innovation
Stryker’s innovative spirit is alive and well as 
we continue to launch new products and pursue acquisitions to fuel growth across our 22 business units. We had an excellent integration of Wright Medical, acquired Gauss Surgical, and launched numerous products across specialties. This year brought further focus on safer care and broader societal impact, and our efforts were recognized in Fortune’s Change the World list. We also continued to advance our digital and enabling technologies capabilities as well as our customized approach to supporting the unique needs of ambulatory surgery center customers. In February of 2022, we also acquired Vocera Communications, a leader in digital care coordination and communication.
In support of our customers, we continue to deliver 
high-quality products and successfully navigate the global supply challenges that have seemingly impacted every industry this year. 
Corporate responsibility
Together with our customers around the world, we impact more than 100 million patients annually. With reach and success comes responsibility, and we owe it to our stakeholders, our planet and ourselves to make progress responsibly and sustainably. This year we advanced each of the commitments we made in 2020, which align with our pillars of stronger people, healthier planet and good business. We built upon our diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives and employee health, safety and wellbeing programs. We reduced our carbon footprint by investing in energy efficiency  and moving towards renewable energy. We formalized oversight of our commitments through our Board of Directors and global CR steering committee. Additionally, we launched Impact, our global giving and volunteering platform that provides our employees the opportunity to donate to a vast number of charities with the click of a button, which is bolstered by an employer match. We were honored to be recognized by People Magazine on its Companies that Care list for 2021, highlighting companies that have succeeded in business while also demonstrating respect and  
care for their employees, communities and  
the environment.
As I reflect on our 80th year as a company, 
it remains clear that Dr. Stryker’s legacy is as strong as ever. Our company strategy will continue to stay focused on customers, innovation, globalization, and supporting responsible, sustainable growth that delivers strong financial performance. We are driven to make a difference in the world and, together with our customers, are making healthcare better.
Kevin A. LoboChair and CEOStryker’s innovative spirit is alive and well as we continue to launch new 
products and pursue acquisitions to fuel growth across our 22 business units.”
8
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in review9
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewInnovating  for growth
As one of the pillars of our strategy, innovation is a critical way 
that Stryker strengthens our product and service lines, development 
capabilities and market reach. 
We do this through both disciplined R&D 
investments and acquisitions to support 
evidence-based care and patient outcomes 
across the continuum of care. Stryker has strong 
R&D pipelines across our 22 business verticals, 
and a clear leadership position in the following 
four areas: 
Smarter solutions 
As we build on our Digital, Robotics and 
Enabling Technologies (DRE) organization, we continue to be a pioneer and leader in the 
robotics market. In Joint Replacement, Stryker 
was first to market with a truly robotic solution: 
Mako SmartRobotics, which uses 3D CT-based 
planning software so your surgeon can know 
more about your anatomy to create a personalized 
joint replacement surgical plan. By guiding 
surgeons during surgery, Mako’s AccuStop 
technology allows surgeons to cut less by cutting 
precisely what’s planned to help protect healthy 
bone.4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11Advanced imaging expertise
Within the Endoscopy market, we have a long 
history of enabling advanced imaging and 
operating room connectivity—driven by a “see 
more, do more” mentality. Our 1688 Advanced 
Imaging Modalities (AIM) 4K Platform supports 
technology like the SPY Portable Handheld Imager 
(SPY-PHI), which makes it easier for surgeons to 
visualize blood flow. SPY-PHI can be used in 
microsurgical, reconstructive and gastrointestinal 
10
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewprocedures and was recently approved for use in 
cervical and uterine lymphatic mapping as well  
as pediatric surgery.Leadership in stroke care
In our Neurovascular business, we advance 
the practice of less invasive therapies through 
innovative stroke products, services and clinical 
education—allowing us to address a leading 
cause of long-term disability. In 2021, we saw 
continued growth in the adoption of the Surpass 
Evolve Flow Diverter, which redirects blood 
flow to promote aneurysm healing. Since its 
initial launch in Europe, Surpass Evolve has been 
approved in over 50 countries, and more than 
5,000 patients have been treated with this life-
saving technology.
Safer care and better outcomes
A commitment to patient safety spans Stryker’s 
businesses, and we offer a broad portfolio 
of products across the continuum of care to 
support this objective. An example of a product 
line that promotes safety is our SurgiCount+ 
Safety-Sponge System. Despite careful oversight, 
surgical sponges are too often left in patients’ 
bodies after surgery. SurgiCount+ allows 
healthcare providers to find sponges more easily 
and provide proof of compliance. Using ultra-
high frequency radio-frequency identification 
technology, each sponge and towel is tagged to 
help ensure 100 percent verification. Mergers and acquisitions
Acquisitions are another critical way that 
Stryker innovates. Throughout 2021, we 
focused on integrating Wright Medical, 
which we acquired in 2020 in the largest 
acquisition in our history. As a recognized 
leader in the upper extremities, lower 
extremities and biologics market segments 
—among the fastest-growing segments in 
orthopaedics—Wright Medical brought 
a complementary product portfolio and 
customer base to our trauma, foot and 
ankle, and upper extremities businesses. 
Also in 2021, Stryker acquired Gauss 
Surgical, a medical device company 
that has developed Triton, an artificial 
intelligence-enabled platform for real-time 
monitoring of blood loss in sponges and 
canisters during surgery, enabling early 
detection of post-partum hemorrhage. 
We believe that Triton technology will 
help improve the industry standards for 
quantifying blood loss in the labor and 
delivery department, furthering Stryker’s 
commitment to improve safety and outcomes 
for our caregivers and their patients. 
11
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewFinancial
highlights
Financial overview 
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
2021 2020 % Change
Net sales $17,108 $14,351 19.2%
Earnings before income taxes 2,281 1,954 16.7%
Income taxes 287 355 (19.2%)
Net earnings 1,994 1,599 24.7%
Adjusted net earnings*3,474 2,827 22.9%
Net earnings per diluted  
share of common stock
    Reported $5.21 $4.20 24.0%
    Adjusted*$9.09 $7.43 22.3%
Dividends paid per share of common stock $2.52 $2.30 9.6%
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $3,019 $3,024 (0.2%)
*  Adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share are non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to page 77 for a 
reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, net earnings and net earnings per diluted share.Net earnings
($ per diluted share)
Adjusted net earnings*
($ per diluted share)
Dividends paid
($ per share of common stock)
12
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in review 
  
Leading  in MedTech
$17.1B in global sales
Sales by segment 
  16%   Trauma & Extremities †  
  15%   Medical *
  13%   Endoscopy *
  12%   Instruments *
  11%   Knees †
    8%   Hips † 
    7%   Spine †
    7%   Neurovascular *
    7%   Neuro Cranial *
    4%   Other *†  
 
* MedSurg and Neurotechnology
† Orthopaedics and Spine
56%
MedSurg and Neurotechnology
  15%   Medical 
  13%   Endoscopy
  12%   Instruments
    7%   Neurovascular
    7%   Neuro Cranial 
    2%   Other44%
Orthopaedics and Spine  
  16%   Trauma & Extremities  
  11%   Knees 
    8%   Hips 
    7%   Spine
    2%   Other2021  geographic net sales 
  72%   United States  
  21%   International (developed)  
    7%   Emerging markets
13
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewOur  
corporate  
responsibility  
journey
We believe the health of the world 
is as important as the people who 
live in it. Corporate Responsibility 
(CR) encompasses Stryker’s 
environmental and social impacts 
that aim to maximize shareholder 
and broader stakeholder value. 
Stryker’s CR objective is to positively impact 
people and our planet through responsible, 
sustainable practices that create a better, 
healthier world. This objective links to Stryker’s 
corporate mission of making healthcare better, 
and it helps us focus on environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) priorities for our business 
where we can create strategic initiatives that  
drive progress.
*For more information on our 
Scope 1 and 2 goals, see page 61In 2021, we introduced a new CR framework with three pillars:  
Stronger people  
We are committed to serving our communities and creating 
a healthy, diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace where 
employees thrive.
 -Advancing a culture of inclusion, engagement and belonging 
 -Strengthening the diversity of our workforce and  
 measuring progress
Healthier  planet
We are committed to reducing our environmental impact on 
the world through responsible, sustainable operations.
 -Realizing 20 percent reduction in carbon emissions for  
 all Stryker facilities 2019-2024*
 -Becoming carbon neutral for all Stryker facilities by 2030*
Good  business
We are committed to helping customers improve patient outcomes and fostering 
responsible growth by pursuing quality and integrity in everything we do.
 -Increasing supply chain transparency and  
 supplier diversity
 -Maintaining formal accountability to the Board of  
 Directors for Corporate Responsibility
We have clear commitments and business activities 
that support each of these pillars, which you can 
read about in more detail throughout this report. 
14
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewStakeholder engagement
Stryker recognizes the rising expectations from our stakeholders around 
CR and ESG, and we regularly engage on these topics with employees, 
customers, investors, suppliers, community members and regulators. This 
engagement comes in many forms, from formal surveys and interviews 
to ESG-focused calls with investors and informal conversations through 
our sales reps and at conferences. We are increasing investments in 
the company’s CR and Sustainability teams and are advancing our ESG 
activities with multiple stakeholders in mind. Through our ongoing 
collaboration and engagement with stakeholders, we are committed to 
meeting their evolving expectations and needs. ESG priorities* 
In 2021, Stryker completed an assessment designed to identify, refine and 
prioritize the potential ESG issues that matter most to our business and 
external stakeholders. It included a benchmark against Stryker’s peers; 
an interview and data-based analysis of priorities among customers, 
suppliers and investors; surveys of Stryker’s sales representatives about 
the topics of greatest interest to customers; and a review of broader ESG 
trends. From these inputs, we developed a list of 20 ESG priority topics 
that align with our pillars of stronger people, healthier planet and good 
business. Moving forward, this prioritization will inform our strategic 
planning, the targets and goals we set, and the way we communicate  
our progress.
Stronger people  
 -Access to quality healthcare
 - Community engagement, charitable 
giving and volunteering
 -Diversity, equity and inclusion 
 -Employee and patient health and safety 
 -Employee development and training
 - Engagement with healthcare providers 
and customers
 -Ethical marketing 
 -Product social impact and innovation Healthier  planet
 -Air pollution
 -Biodiversity
 -Climate change 
 - Environmental product/packaging 
development and design 
 -Operational waste management 
 -WaterGood  business
 - Ethics, compliance, anti-corruption  
and anti-trust
 - Information security and privacy, 
intellectual property and cybersecurity 
 -Product safety and quality
 -Responsible sourcing and human rights
 -Supply chain transparency and diversity 
 - Transparency, ESG reporting and  
stakeholder engagement 
*    ESG materiality** approach: Our assessment, completed by an external agency with input from our leaders and internal stakeholders, helped us identify and prioritize the ESG topics that 
matter most to our external stakeholders and our company. We will continue to monitor the rapidly evolving ESG and Corporate Responsibility landscape, including the frameworks and 
guidelines, report on ESG priorities, evaluate these topics in the future and adjust our approach accordingly.
** “Materiality,” as used in this report, is different than the definition used in the context of filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
15
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive Report2021 in reviewStronger  
people
16
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthcare  
providers and patients
Our mission—”together with our customers, we are driven to make 
healthcare better.”—acknowledges that we can’t make progress alone. 
Building relationships with medical professionals, 
home care providers, emergency responders, 
community members, hospitals and other 
healthcare facilities and their administrators is  
an essential part of fulfilling our mission. 
We cultivate these partnerships in several  
ways, including:
 - Conducting surveys to understand and 
address challenges that healthcare providers 
(HCPs) face in care environments - Providing medical education  and training
 - Funding appropriate grants for  
scientific research
 - Maintaining a staff of clinical nurse 
consultants who work alongside HCPs to create 
roadmaps to improve patient outcomes 
 - Offering business solutions that allow facilities 
to offer accessible medical care - Working directly with our customers to  
develop new technologies, such as Blueprint 
Mixed Reality
The value of partnership has never been more 
apparent than during the pandemic. Our 
customers have been pushed to the limit and 
need companies and products that they can
17
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peoplerely on. During this uncertain time, we are 
staying closely connected to customers to meet 
their needs and improve their experiences in a 
range of healthcare environments. 
Meeting our customers’ needs goes beyond 
good business. As one of the world’s leading 
medical technology companies, we feel a larger 
sense of social responsibility. Our innovation 
and commitment to advanced technologies 
uniquely set us apart and help expand the reach 
of healthcare. Examples include our Mako 
SmartRobotics surgical system, used to perform 
hip and knee replacement surgeries, and our 
Triton blood loss monitoring platform. 
Patient and caregiver safety
When patients enter a hospital, they shouldn’t 
have to worry about surgical site infections, 
pressure injuries, complications resulting 
from retained surgical sponges and fall-related 
injuries. These conditions can be costly to  
treat and can disrupt the recovery process  
for patients. Hospital-acquired conditions are common, 
but also preventable. A strong commitment to 
protecting patient safety and improving outcomes 
spans Stryker’s businesses. We offer a broad 
portfolio of products across the continuum of 
care—from pre-hospital to emergency, through all 
phases of operative environments, into the ICU, 
medical and surgical (MedSurg) and outpatient 
settings—even at a patient’s home. Our safety and 
outcomes product portfolio extends to caregiver 
safety, including innovations that help reduce 
slips, trips and falls, contain surgical smoke and 
limit strain when transferring a patient from a 
stretcher or bed. Together, these products give 
patients and their caregivers confidence as they 
lead to safer treatments and more successful 
recoveries. 
These solutions have been developed in the same 
way as all our technology: by listening to our 
customers. With their input, we have expanded 
our portfolio’s breadth and depth of specialization 1 in 25 
U.S. hospital patients 
have at least one hospital-
acquired infection12
1 1 retained sponges
occur every day in the U.S.13 
Up to 1 million13 
patients in the U.S. experience a fall 
while being treated in the hospital 
each year, and nearly one third of 
those falls can be prevented
~60,000
patients die each year  
as a direct result of pressure injury14 Hospital-acquired  
conditions by the numbers
18
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleby developing and acquiring solutions to  
further enhance safety and improve outcomes. 
Examples include: 
 - ProCuity Bed Series— Based on customer 
research showing a correlation between bed 
height and fall risk, we designed the lowest 
bed in the industry with adjustable siderails 
to enable patients to enter and exit safely. 
Intelligent features provide caregivers with 
information to help them further prevent falls.
 - Sage Self Oral Care— Pneumonia is the 
number-one hospital-acquired infection in 
the U.S., but basic oral care can help keep 
infections at bay.15 Our all-in-one, single-use 
oral care system is designed to address the  
risk factors associated with hospital-  
acquired pneumonia.
 - SurgiCount and SurgiCount+ Safety-Sponge 
Systems— This digital process assists doctors 
and nurses in tracking surgical sponges during 
surgery. The system has been used in over 
16 million procedures, potentially saving the 
healthcare industry more than $825 million.16
 -Neptune SafeAir Smoke Evacuation—  
 When electrosurgical devices encounter human  
 tissues during surgery, toxic smoke is released   that can be harmful to human health. In fact,  
 a day in the operating room (OR) for an HCP  
 can have the same impact as smoking  
 27 unfiltered cigarettes.17 Our suite of smoke  
 evacuation products helps reduce exposure  
 to these biohazards. In 2021, this solution  
 earned the Waste Award  given by U.K.-based  
 organization Sustainability Partnerships, a  
 company tendered by the NHS to drive and  
 accelerate the sustainability agenda within  
 the NHS. 
Keeping patients and caregivers safe is a shared 
endeavor. Stryker enters risk-sharing agreements 
with our customers, reimbursing them if they 
do not see decreases in the “never events” that 
our safety products are designed to reduce. As a 
result of this work, Stryker was named to Fortune  
magazine’s 2021 Change the World  list. 
Access to quality healthcare
Part of what it means to make healthcare better is 
to make it more accessible. As global populations 
grow and lifespans increase, this challenge has 
never been more urgent—or more important. 
According to the World Health Organization, 
only 33 to 49 percent of the global population 
receives the essential health services they 
need.18 Stryker advocates for increased patient 
access to lifesaving and life-improving medical 
technologies around the world, which enhances 
19
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleclinical outcomes and helps governments, 
other payers and providers make cost-effective 
decisions. At the same time, robust quality 
systems  ensure that we never sacrifice quality in 
pursuit of accessibility.
Our efforts include impact-focused philanthropic 
initiatives , virtual and in-person HCP education 
and training, and reduced-price and refurbished 
equipment programs. We also drive access through 
targeted acquisitions. As we acquire smaller 
companies developing cutting-edge healthcare 
solutions, we introduce their products to a broader 
market of healthcare providers, which ultimately 
increases access for patients. An example is our 
recent acquisition of the Silicon Valley startup 
Gauss Surgical, whose artificial intelligence-
enabled blood loss monitoring technology assists 
medical professionals in addressing a leading  
cause of maternal death globally.19 
Healthcare economic improvements 
When clinical data and economic data align, 
customers can make decisions with confidence. 
Because Stryker offers products that represent 
significant financial investments, we work to 
reassure our customers that they will see a return. 
We collaborate with industry partners, trade 
associations and clinical societies to evaluate 
the clinical effectiveness and economic impact 
of our products. Then, we share this data with 
providers and payers, allowing them to evaluate 
the benefit for their respective needs. Stryker’s 
solutions that help customers better understand 
and take advantage of these benefits include:  - Mako SmartRobotics— Our robotic arm-
assisted surgical system has been used to 
perform over half a million procedures, with 
hundreds of published studies. Mako has 
demonstrated the potential to deliver value 
through enhanced outcomes such as:
•  Reduced pain and use of pain medications  
in total knee arthroplasty (TKA)20,21,22
•  Reduced complications such as dislocation in 
total hip arthroplasty (THA), manipulation 
under anesthesia in TKA and revision 
in unicompartmental knee arthroplasty 
(UKA)23,24,25
•  Increased patient satisfaction in TKA, THA  
and UKA22,25,26
•  In TKA and THA, reduced utilization of health 
services such as skilled nursing, home health 
aide, readmissions and emergency room27,28,29,30 
•  Reduced payer cost in TKA, UKA and THA27,28,29,31 - StrokEnomics— With StrokEnomics, Stryker 
partners with physicians, hospitals and 
healthcare systems to create tailored solutions 
that may improve patient access and make care 
more efficient. By delivering strategies around 
health economic analysis and funding solutions, 
our team helps remove economic barriers to 
enhance both patient access and quality of care.
 - CustomerOne— Our Medical business offers 
customers products that address the most 
common and often expensive adverse events in 
acute care settings, such as catheter-associated 
urinary tract infections, hospital or ventilator-
associated pneumonia and pressure ulcers. Our 
CustomerOne team partners with acute care 
providers to evaluate their current occurrence 
rates and measure reductions achieved (often 
30 percent or more) with the appropriate use  
of our products.
20
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peoplePricing and refurbished equipment programs 
Customers around the world tell us that they need payment options that fit their 
budgets and align with their business strategies. In response, our Flex Financial 
business offers a range of customizable programs including deferred payment 
programs, traditional finance and operating leases, step payments and usage-  
based options. 
To meet the growing demand for affordable and reliable healthcare solutions in 
emerging markets, we invest in localization of value-segment technologies, such 
as Trauson in China for trauma, spine and joint replacement products. Rather than 
taking a one-size-fits-all approach, we implement manufacturing strategies locally 
based on the needs of our customers. 
Stryker’s Sustainability Solutions business provides 
reprocessing services for single-use medical devices. 
Reprocessing of single-use medical devices  lowers expenses 
by 25 to 30 percent without compromising quality or 
safety.27,28,29,31,32 For example, the Save Simply Program 
enables reprocessing of Sage Prevalon Mobile Air Transfer 
Systems, saving thousands of dollars in waste diversion 
costs while reducing hospitals’ environmental footprint.33
21
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleMedical education
When well-trained professionals are equipped 
with industry-leading technology, patients have 
broader access and better outcomes. To help make 
these outcomes possible, we provide extensive 
medical education and training on the safe and 
effective use of our products for thousands of 
HCPs worldwide. Through these efforts, we aim 
to advance product and procedural knowledge 
and skills, improve customer confidence and  
ultimately improve patient care. 
Stryker’s focus on medical education is to provide 
a simplified, personalized and engaging customer 
experience. HCPs can access our educational 
opportunities via our self-service portal on 
stryker.com. It includes interactive trainings, 
on-demand video libraries and learning series, 
along with tools like our Global MedEd calendar 
and Common Learning Management System to 
deliver and track training activity. In addition to 
virtual education, our offerings include product 
in-services, cadaveric training courses, surgery 
observations, HCP-to-HCP trainings, proficiency-based training, proctoring and certifications. We 
conduct all training activities in strict accordance 
with our internal HCP interactions (HCPi) 
guidance, which is designed to comply with 
applicable laws and adhere to recommendations 
of industry associations such as AdvaMed. It 
covers considerations, principles and procedures 
for all interactions between Stryker employees 
and HCPs. Our Medical Education Council 
oversees the global team that drives medical 
education excellence across the company. 
As the global pandemic limits opportunities 
to travel and conduct in-person education 
opportunities, we continue to offer virtual 
trainings and resources, such as surgical 
demonstrations streamed to hundreds of sites. 
One of our premier surgeon-to-surgeon programs 
allows attendees worldwide to view live surgery 
anywhere and to ask questions during the 
procedure. Across our businesses, we trained 
more than 108,000 HCPs and conducted more 
than 6,000 courses in 2021.
22
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleGrants and charitable donations
Stryker provides education, research, grants 
and charitable donations for appropriate 
scientific, educational or healthcare purposes. 
We do not offer grants or donations as unlawful 
inducement to purchase, lease or recommend 
the use of any of Stryker’s products or services, 
as outlined in our HCPi guidance. We document 
all grant and charitable donation requests. The 
appropriate business reviews and approves 
any proposal before the event date and 
follows applicable laws, regulations, corporate 
guidelines and divisional procedures. -  At Stryker’s Learning Center in Salt Lake 
City, our medical education team hosted a 
three-day, in-person Cerebrovascular and 
Skull Base cadaveric course, which involved 
several neurotechnology businesses coming 
together to train 23 neurosurgery residents 
with world-renowned faculty.
-  In partnership with the Association of 
periOperative Registered Nurses (AORN) 
and nursing consultants, we delivered two 
training courses to educate operating room 
staff on updated guidelines on retained 
surgical items and smoke evacuation.
-  With our new SKILL Assist Remote 
Proctoring Solution, we were able to 
remotely proctor nearly 300 cases around 
the globe, training on our Evolve and 
Streamline neurovascular products.-  Our mobile labs hosted events across the U.S. 
Our Surgical Technologies Mobile Lab visited 
51 institutions and reached 2,140 HCPs, 
while our Neurosurgical Mobile Lab traveled 
37,000 miles and reached 1,664 HCPs. 
-  In Boston, we collaborated with a surgeon 
partner to host a Surgical Training Lab 
on mandible reconstruction using virtual 
surgical planning (VSP) technology and our 
Facial iD Mandible Reconstruction Plate.In 2021, Stryker held impactful training sessions with HCPs across the world. 
A few examples include: Educating  HCPs on the safe use of our products
23
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleEmployees
Our workplace is special. Just ask our employees.
“It’s just different here.” A common sentence 
heard by our new hires and tenured team 
members alike. The reason? Our relentless 
pursuit to attract, engage and develop top talent 
that delivers results. Focus on these areas and 
our mission to deliver for our customers and 
their patients is what sets us apart. The result 
is a workplace that puts talent, employee safety 
and wellbeing first while supporting personal 
development as individuals, leaders and team 
members. These dynamics all come together in 
a workforce of approximately 46,000 employees 
worldwide, united by a common mission of 
making healthcare better.Diversity, equity and inclusion
As we grow and evolve, one thing will never 
change: people are at the heart of what we do. By 
valuing our differences, we are stronger together. 
Stryker’s senior leadership team oversees our 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) efforts, 
which are a foundational element of our business 
strategy. We focus on enabling a culture that 
creates access and opportunity for everyone to 
thrive and reflects the diverse backgrounds and 
needs of the communities that we serve. Our 
DE&I commitments support our philosophy  
and our mission to make healthcare better. Our DE&I  commitments  
 
 Strengthen  the diversity of  
 our workforce
 Advance  a culture of inclusion,  
 engagement and belonging
 Maximize  the power of inclusion to  
 drive innovation and growth
24
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleAdvancing our strategy through action
In 2021, we aligned our actions across the company 
in six areas to advance our DE&I commitments. 
Leader accountability through increased 
transparency of data, performance objectives  
and inclusion in our business review process.  
Our leadership teams regularly review our diversity metrics—including representation, recruiting, retention and advancement—and initiate strategies and actions to support continued progress. We incorporated DE&I metrics and action plans into our business  review process and will continue to share diversity data with all employees annually. 
In 2021, we set a goal for all managers to  
complete our Think Twice unconscious bias 
workshop, which showcases what bias is,  
how it shows up and what to do about it. In addition, we introduced a DE&I goal for all people managers’ annual objectives, helping  
us to develop inclusive leadership at all levels  
of management.
Engage and inspire all talent and empower 
every employee to take action.
It takes all of us working together to advance our commitment to DE&I. This year, we took steps to strengthen the foundation for DE&I at Stryker by educating and empowering our employees during our first global DE&I summit. 
We also continued to host global listening sessions, 
engaging with our employees to identify and address areas of opportunity and strengthen our culture of inclusion. Participants said they felt encouraged by our actions to date, and want to  
see continued focus on DE&I moving forward. 
Develop our people and processes by 
removing barriers and optimizing the power of 
diverse backgrounds, talents and perspectives.We led several differentiated development programs aimed at increasing visibility  
and career development. We also increased  
education and resources for managers related  
to inclusive hiring practices and mitigating  
bias in talent processes.
A recent accomplishment includes Crossing 
the Finish Line, a program to support the development, engagement and advancement of Black, Hispanic and Latino/a employees. Through this program, participants gain exposure to senior leaders, enhancing opportunities for visibility, advocacy and strategic networking. Engaging employees to “be 
the difference”
Our first global DE&I 
summit, held in July, was open to all Stryker employees. We used the summit to increase global awareness of our DE&I commitments, share updates on our progress and highlight the role all employees play in achieving our goals. The summit challenged us to be the difference: for ourselves, our colleagues, our customers and our communities. Our Chair and CEO, Kevin Lobo, reinforced our commitments and discussed the importance of authenticity, transparency and accountability with Lisa Skeete Tatum, Founder and CEO of Landit and a member of our Board of Directors. 
Over the course of the five-day event, there 
were more than 25,000 views as fellow employees and customers shared stories and perspectives that encouraged us to think differently about DE&I and how we can each contribute to an inclusive environment. The summit educated us on important topics, amplified our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), and empowered each of us to advance our commitment to DE&I.
25
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleAttract a diverse talent pool through focused outreach and ensuring 
an objective hiring process.
We have challenged ourselves to think differently about how we recruit, hire and onboard talent to ensure that we are attracting a mix of skills, knowledge and diversity that best reflects and serves our customers. We focused on process enhancements and education to reinforce an inclusive and objective hiring process and on advertising, marketing and partnership events to promote Stryker as an employer of choice for all. ERGs shared insights and inputs for our diversity recruiting strategies. 
Stryker partners with multiple organizations and in 2021 established 
new partnerships with The PhD Project, Disability:IN and Rewriting the Code. At the same time we strengthened our engagement with the National Sales Network and historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs). We expanded our early talent strategy to reach more students and initiated a partnership with WayUp, a digital platform that offers opportunities to engage with more than 6 million students from historically underrepresented groups. 
In 2021, 2/3 of our filled jobs in the U.S. included diverse interview slates. Workplace awards
Best Workplaces, Great Place to Work 
Brazil, Canada, Chile, Finland, France, Greater China (China mainland, 
Taiwan, Hong Kong) , Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Sweden, 
United Kingdom, United States
Regional Great Place to Work awards: Asia, Europe
Specialty Great Place to Work award: Manufacturing and Production, 
Millennials, Parents
Diversity, equity and inclusion
America’s Best Employers for Diversity, Forbes
America’s Best Employers for Women, Forbes
Best Workplaces for Women, Great Place to Work, Chile, France, Italy, 
United Kingdom, United States
Best Workplaces for All, Great Place to Work, Mexico 
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality, HRC Corporate Equality Index
Military Friendly Employers, VIQTOR Y
Best of the Best Top Veteran Friendly Company, U.S. Veterans Magazine
Top 50 employer, Woman Engineer magazine
Top 50 employer, Minority Engineer magazine
26
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleAdvance our ERGs to expand reach through 
executive leadership, global presence, funding  
and aligned strategies.
Our ERGs play a critical role in creating an 
inclusive culture and provide valuable input to 
our DE&I action plans. They create networking 
and development opportunities and advocate 
for underrepresented talent groups. In 2021, 
we strengthened the infrastructure, governance 
and executive sponsorship of our ERGs to create 
consistency and greater impact to the business. 
We also established a DE&I roundtable with 
representation from each ERG to gather input 
on the broader DE&I strategy and align ERG 
initiatives to advance our goals. 
Positively impact our customers and 
communities  through building and 
strengthening external partnerships.
We engaged with several organizations focused 
on the advancement of diverse talent groups. 
This included developing our partnership with OneTen as a founding member, launching 
our Career Right Here  initiative in Kalamazoo, 
Michigan, and strengthening our recruiting 
partnerships. These partnerships demonstrate our 
commitment to create a workforce more reflective 
of the diversity among our customers, patients 
and communities.Stryker continues to work with our customers 
on DE&I initiatives internally and externally. We 
have openly shared what Stryker is doing with 
customers as they develop and lead their own 
DE&I efforts. Additionally, we invite customers to 
share their perspectives on DE&I at ERG events 
and our global DE&I summit. 
27
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger people2021 progress 
toward our goals We remain committed to strengthening our culture and communities while improving our company 
with sustainable progress over time. While there is more work to do, we are proud of our progress toward the goals we set forth last year.
Increase representation 
of women and racially/
ethnically diverse talent 
to reflect our markets
0.9% Increase in representation 
of women (global)
1.3% Increase in race/ethnicity 
representation (U.S. only)
Compared to 2020
Ensure 100 percent 
of people managers 
complete DE&I training within one year of hire or 
promotion to manager
98.9% completion -Added executive sponsorship of our LGBTQ+ ERG, Stryker Allies for Equality (SAFE) and our  
 Asian Community Empowerment (A CE) ERG 
 - Piloted a mentoring and career coaching program with Stryker’s African Ancestry Network 
(SAAN) to increase leadership exposure and offer focused development Actively support ERGs through increased funding and sponsorship
Measure employee sentiment through regular engagement surveys and ensure 
parity across gender and racial/ethnic groups 
 Increase in our company Gallup Inclusiveness Index score, a measure of employee belonging 
in the workplace 
Increase jobs for Black Americans  
through active engagement as  
a founding member of the  
OneTen coalition 
 -Marketing open roles via OneTen’s  
 platform
 -Contributing to skills-first workstreamContinue investment in  diversity recruitment 
Increase investment in diversity recruiting by:
 -Building internal capability
 -Acquiring new tools
 - Establishing additional external partnerships
28
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger people 
Representation data
Gender (global)
Overall
  36.6%   Women (2020: 35.7%)  
  62.8%   Men (2020: 63.5%)
    0.6%   Not reported/not disclosed (2020: 0.8%)Team members 
  37.6%   Women (2020: 36.9%)  
  61.7%   Men (2020: 62.2%)
    0.7%   Not reported/not      
       disclosed (2020: 0.9%)Managers and directors
  33.3%   Women (2020: 31.9%)  
  66.4%   Men (2020: 67.6%)
    0.3%   Not reported/not        
          disclosed (2020: 0.5%)
VP+ 
  25.0%   Women (2020: 23.0%)  
  75.0%   Men (2020: 77.0%)
* Calculated on the day the directors were elected at the annual shareholders meetings in 2020 and 2021. Board* 
  40%   Women (2020: 40%)  
  60%   Men (2020: 60%)
29
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger people 
Race/ethnicity (U.S. only)*
Overall
  70.2%   White (2020: 71.5%)  
  10.6%   Hispanic or Latino/a (2020: 10.1%)
    5.6%   Black or African American (2020: 5.5%)
    7.5%   Asian (2020: 7.2%)
    6.1%   Additional races/ethnicities (2020: 5.7%)** 
Team members
  67.9%   White (2020: 69.0%)  
  12.3%   Hispanic or Latino/a  
      (2020: 11.8%)
    6.6%   Black or African  
      American (2020: 6.6%)
    6.7%   Asian (2020: 6.5%)
    6.5%   Additional races/  
     ethnicities (2020: 6.1%)** VP+ 
  83.5%   White (2020: 87.8%)  
    1.6%   Hispanic or Latino/a  
      (2020: 1.2%)
    2.7%   Black or African  
      American (2020: 2.9%)
    6.4%   Asian (2020: 5.2%)
    5.8%   Additional races/  
     ethnicities (2020: 2.9%)**
Managers and directors
  76.9%   White (2020: 79.2%)  
    5.5%   Hispanic or Latino/a  
      (2020: 4.8%)
    2.5%   Black or African  
      American (2020: 2.2%)
  10.0%   Asian (2020: 9.5%)
    5.1%   Additional races/  
     ethnicities (2020: 4.3%)** 
*   This data does not include Puerto Rico. 
**    Includes American Indian, Native Alaskan, Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, two or more races, and not disclosed.
*** Calculated on the day the directors were elected at the annual shareholders meetings in 2020 and 2021.Board***
  50%   White (2020: 50%)  
  20%   Black or African  
   American (2020: 20%)
  30%   Asian (2020: 30%)
30
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleEmployee health and safety
As a company in the business of keeping people healthy, ensuring our employees’ safety and 
wellbeing is a top priority. It’s a responsibility that we share throughout the company and one that has evolved to meet the needs of our workforce during the pandemic. Employees’ safety risks vary depending on the roles they perform, so we tailor our safety strategies accordingly. These roles include production work carried out at manufacturing sites, commercial work carried out in the field and administrative work carried out virtually or in an office, among other categories. In 2021, we maintained an overarching focus on providing employees with resources to stay both physically and mentally well, standardizing and broadening safety practices and cultivating a strong employee focus on health and safety.
Manufacturing safety 
For our employees working at Stryker’s manufacturing and distribution sites, offices and remote locations, the cornerstone of our safety practices is our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy. The Policy mandates that we collectively meet all regulatory requirements and drive a culture of global safety and security. It defines four key commitments:
a safe workplace
Promote Anticipate 
recognize, evaluate and control environmental,  
health and safety risks
facility EHS complianceAssure 
for disaster response  
and recoveryPrepare Employment type
Full-time vs. part-time
  45,483   Full-time  
  659   Part-time
Salaried vs. hourly
  35,468   Salaried  
  10,674   Hourly
Hiring and retention
8,562 
2021 new  hires 31%
open roles filled by internal candidates
31
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleemployees by installing protocols that address 
these site-specific needs. 
Each manufacturing site is responsible for its 
facility-level EHS compliance and is assigned an EHS Point of Contact (POC), supported by the Global EHS Director. Each POC is responsible for relaying global EHS guidance and directives to its local EHS committees and leadership teams to effectively drive and manage EHS commitments and programs at a regional level. The most common types of work-related injuries for Stryker’s manufacturing employees include slips, trips and falls, injuries from repetitive motion or ergonomic issues, and struck objects. Since 2019, Stryker has meaningfully decreased injuries related to slips, trips and falls as well as machinery-related hand cuts by implementing new education and training initiatives. 
Additional manufacturing risks are site-specific 
and related to our medical device manufacturing processes. We take special precautions to protect 
32
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleListen. Leverage. Improve.
Historically, one of the most exacting tasks performed at our manufacturing sites involved the operation of Computer Numerical 
Control (CNC) machines. Employees use these machines to cut materials like aluminum, titanium, steel and plastic. The  
safety record relating to our CNC machines in Mahwah, New Jersey was at the highest level of any facility throughout our manufacturing network. 
Our EHS Director, Alvis Headen, took notice and visited the facility to learn what made Mahwah’s process different. Operators 
demonstrated a meticulous shut-down and change-out process that reduced risk of injury. The EHS team collaborated with Mahwah employees to produce a presentation that now serves as mandatory annual training for all CNC machine operators.  
By leveraging employees’ expertise, we have nearly eliminated all CNC-related injuries, with only one instance reported in 2021. In 2021, we made several program improvements 
to further enhance our EHS outcomes. These included:
 - Hiring additional regional EHS leaders and 
training all EHS managers on a mandatory curriculum based on industry-recognized competencies
 - Expanding our SAP-EHS Management System 
into 41 of our manufacturing sites, including four sites integrated through the Wright Medical acquisition
 - Reducing common manufacturing-related 
injuries through targeted instruction on topics including slips, trips and falls, machine guarding and hazard communication
 - Investing more than $6 million in fire safety 
improvements across manufacturing sites through a comprehensive risk management  
and site-wide auditing program
 - Further developing our lessons-learned program 
by creating a Global Quality Operations (GQO) Incident Review Board, which holds managers accountable for communicating key lessons from significant safety-related incidents occurring within our manufacturing plantsThese efforts continue to move us toward our  goal of zero work-related injuries. 
Manufacturing safety KPIs
In 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we limited occupancy and reduced work hours to mitigate virus transmission and keep our people safe (read more about our COVID-19 
response efforts ). Work hours represent a critical 
multiple in calculating injury rate, causing this key performance indicator (KPI) to drop in 2020. In lieu of comparing our injury rate during a pandemic to full scale operations, we have elected to compare our 2021 injury rate to the 2019 production year—a more realistic comparison. Our 2021 injury rate is roughly two-thirds the injury rate of 2019. Additional safety data and details on our safety progress can be found in our GRI Index.
At Stryker, EHS is a collective responsibility, 
meaning all employees are expected to contribute to our process of anticipating, recognizing and controlling safety risk. Safety observations represent a key indicator of employee engagement. Safety observations can be in the form of positive feedback such as employees recognizing the correct use of personal protective equipment or correcting a safety deficiency such as cleaning a wet, slippery floor. We strongly believe that high EHS observation counts are indicative of an engaged workforce, committed to reducing injuries.
Near miss  
frequency rate*Manufacturing safety KPIs
Safety observations
 Recordable injury rate
(per 100 employees)
33
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger people
*Data updated Jan. 11, 2022Field and commercial safety
For our commercial team, it’s all about meeting clients where they are—from hospitals and medical facilities to site and mobile labs to educational institutions. They use their expertise to represent Stryker’s products and services, provide testing and education and, in many  
cases, facilitate product implementation. 
Field-based employees are unique in the sense 
that they share EHS responsibilities with the hospitals and other locations they enter. Sales representatives complete an in-depth onboarding process that includes risk management and division-specific trainings. The types of risks our commercial team faces are tied to their division, products and customers. Representatives from our Medical division—whose product lines include beds, wheelchairs and patient room furniture—are more prone to ergonomic risks associated with lifting, pulling or pushing heavy equipment. Those involved in testing, demonstrating and implementing handheld medical and surgical products may face other types of risks.
We keep field and commercial employees safe by 
focusing on three main principles: 
 -Safety culture
 -Education and awareness
 -Systems and processes 
These ongoing measures work to ensure commercial and field employee safety. Another important focus has been protecting field-based employees, as well as the clients and medical professionals they engage with, throughout the COVID-19 pandemic.
34
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleCOVID-19: Our response efforts
Protecting our employees and steering them through the challenges posed by the global pandemic remain a collective and ongoing priority. We continue to base COVID-19 safety protocols and operations on case rates, government regulations and guidance from regulatory bodies in locations where we operate. We have teams focused on protecting our employees at the global, regional and local levels. Local Incident Response Teams (LIRT), rolling up to a Centralized Incident Response Team (CIRT), remain in place to ensure a coordinated response. Because the risks and guidelines associated with COVID-19 shift in different regions at different times, in 2021 we focused on a localized response for most day-to-day procedures. For large-scale protocols, Stryker’s leadership team provides ultimate oversight, with guidance from our COVID-19 response review board of medical, legal and business experts. Employee wellbeing and mental health
As the pandemic continues to transform the ways we work and interact, 
we are focused on supporting employees’ overall wellbeing and finding 
a balance between providing workplace flexibility and maintaining 
connection. To ensure the physical and mental wellbeing of our 
employees, we: 
 - Expanded our LifeWorks Employee Assistance Program (EAP) globally, 
which offers 24/7 support on topics including mental health, grief, elder 
care, addiction and more
 - Introduced three new partners for U.S. members of Strive, our 
wellbeing program that helps employees learn about, create,  
implement and sustain healthy habits  - Offered new self-service resources on mental health, wellbeing and 
flexible work
 - Promoted the importance of preventive care visits to our employees  
and their families
 - Equipped managers with educational resources and tools to support 
their employees in navigating our new normal 
We also conducted two employee pulse surveys in 2021 on topics related 
to employee connection and wellbeing. These surveys are intended to be 
quick check-ins between managers and employees that provide insight 
into what support employees need to be successful. Accompanying 
the launch of both pulse surveys were question-by-question resources 
offering additional support.
35
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleEmployee career development
Stryker is growing, which means more 
opportunities for employees to grow. We invest 
deeply in training employees in new skills and 
processes while supporting their individual 
goals and passions. From onboarding new hires 
to developing existing talent to integrating 
those who join us through acquisitions, our 
talent offense helps us to identify employee 
development needs and guides the design of  
new learning opportunities.
Development at Stryker is extensive and exists 
at all levels of the organization, including 
companywide training on topics ranging from 
our code of conduct and job-related technical 
training to leadership development. We 
design our talent programs around a 70/20/10 
development model and include management and leadership training, peer-to-peer learning, 
mentoring and partnerships with outside experts 
on key topics and “action learning” where 
employees apply their new insights to solve 
real-time business opportunities and challenges. 
A unique aspect of our career development 
offerings is our internal network of coaches. We 
have over 280 certified coaches globally with whom employees can connect for additional 
individualized development. 
As we acquire and integrate additional companies, 
HR leaders use our integration playbook to 
provide employees at various levels with the 
appropriate training, development opportunities 
and immersion in Stryker’s culture. 
36
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleWe manage training at the local, business or global level, depending on training type. Functional 
learning is managed by each department or functional group. The Talent Management Center of Expertise designs and delivers management and leadership development offerings, and in 2021, provided approximately 320 offerings for more than 7,800 participants. Our partnership with LinkedIn Learning also gives employees access to over 16,000 online courses taught by real-world professionals. Additional 2021 highlights include:
 - New executive development programs 
including our Leadership Masterclass (offered to new vice presidents), Director Roundtables and the reintroduction of our Growth Academy for senior commercial leaders
 - Expanded Global Leadership Development 
curriculum including Lead 100 (fundamentals of leadership), Leading in a Matrix and Building a Culture of Coaching and Feedback
 - Virtual development resources including our 
LinkedIn Learning partnership, Learning Sprints, Talent Talk podcasts and virtual  one-on-one leadership coaching 
37
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peoplePerformance managementOur approach to performance management is based on a culture of continuous improvement and coaching. Managers are responsible for attracting, developing, engaging and aligning  their teams to ensure they feel connected to  each other and our mission as part of our talent offense approach. 
Our employees undergo annual performance 
reviews and are encouraged to create individual development plans, in partnership with their manager, on an ongoing basis. We support this by providing employees and managers with resources to communicate and share feedback throughout the year using our Workday platform. Employee goals—comprised of performance goals and leadership expectations—drive focus on outcomes and behaviors.
22,000+
hoursEmployees spent
81,000+
LinkedIn Learning 
courses in 2021viewing Communities
Access to good health shouldn’t be determined by factors like area 
code or income—and neither should opportunities to get a job. 
To combat these inequities, we engage 
communities around the world, providing support to those who need it most. Our approach links directly to our DE&I strategy  and centers 
on partnerships with community members and organizations whose work aligns with our mission and values. We also leverage the talent and passion of thousands of Stryker employees to raise funds and provide support through volunteer efforts, mentorship programs and educational oppor
 tunities.
Giving and volunteering programs
Stryker’s employees fuel our companywide passion for improving the lives of others. Whether it’s by volunteering locally or donating globally, our people are driven to give. To improve quality of life for people around the world, we advance healthcare, education, the arts and environmental 
sustainability—while keeping equity top of mind. We also care about the unique causes that motivate our employees, and this year we made  it even easier to give back and get involved.
Stryker’s global support
Stryker supports organizations that align with our community giving goals. 
38
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleIn 2021, our businesses and their teams gave back 
through educational outreach, pledge walks and other activities that raised funds for organizations including Operation Smile, Operation Walk, the National Brain Tumor Society and the Thi Nghe Orphanage. We also provided product donations  to healthcare organizations including the Foundation of Orthopedics and Complex Spine (FOCOS) Orthopedic Hospital. In total, Stryker donated $6 million in products and $9 million  in monetary support in 2021.
39
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger peopleOperation SmileFor nearly four decades, Operation Smile  
has provided critically needed surgical and comprehensive care for children with cleft and other conditions in low- and middle-income countries. Stryker has supported these efforts through cash, in-kind donations and mission volunteers since 1999.
Our annual Smile Maker campaign benefits 
Operation Smile by raising money to fund life changing surgeries. The 2020–21 campaign included a dollar-for-dollar match on employee Career  Right Here 
We believe that reaching our own potential starts by helping our neighbors reach theirs. In Kalamazoo, Michigan, home of our worldwide headquarters, our community faces a local poverty rate well above the national average  
and an average household income well below it. In 2021, we launched Career Right Here  
to help close this equity gap while creating a talent pipeline that better reflects the diversity of our local population. 
The program supports Kalamazoo job seekers 
by increasing clarity around job eligibility criteria and communicating available positions. We also connect them with local educators, skills providers and non-profits to prepare them for the future. The program creates opportunities for our employees to get to know their neighbors, and we work with other local employers, nonprofits and community members to share what we learn.
Career Right Here is a powerful 
talent initiative that will offer career readiness programs, connect us with untapped talent and strengthen our community.”  
—Kevin Lobo, Chair and CEO donations and provided support for patient 
care programs, COVID-19 relief efforts and more. Together with our employees, we helped Operation Smile reach over 15,000 children  
and adults worldwide who needed care. 
More than 1,000 employees serve as Operation 
Smile ambassadors who engage with the program by educating their local communities and raising funds. Over the years, Stryker employees have also served on Operation Smile missions, supporting the medical team, patients and families. While the organization suspended large-scale medical missions in 2020 due to COVID-19, patient care  
has since resumed in 33 countries, spearheaded  
by in-country medical volunteers and Operation Smile offices. 
Stryker also funds innovative medical education 
programming for healthcare workers across the world, including in Rwanda, where wait lists for skin and plastic surgery can extend to several years. In 2021, part of our support helped Operation Smile launch a new medical education program that will train 60 anesthesia clinical officers in safe anesthesia administration practices. By creating more surgical capacity and helping to improve patient outcomes, Stryker’s funding of the program is strengthening Rwanda’s healthcare systems at the national level. 
Introducing Impact
In 2021, we launched Impact, a new global giving and volunteering platform that allows Stryker to support causes that our employees are passionate about. Stryker matches employee donations through this platform, and in 2021, we celebrated the launch by offering a limited-time, two-to-one match. Impact also provides employees with personalized volunteer options, including virtual, skills-based and in-person opportunities. In addition, when disaster strikes anywhere across the globe, employees can support relief efforts and get funds to the places that need it most. Eligible employees in the U.S. can request a volunteer leave of absence for one day per year to receive pay while volunteering with a qualifying organization during their normal work schedule. 
40
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportStronger people$1.8M
donated in six months (employee donations and company match)
1 ,660
nonprofits received donationsGood
business
41Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGovernance
We are committed to doing what’s right. Strong corporate 
governance is essential to living our value of integrity. 
We conduct our affairs in compliance with all 
applicable laws and regulations and according to the highest ethical standards. 
Stryker regularly engages with shareholders 
and considers their proposals, when properly submitted, based on our mission and values. Proposals come to a vote at our annual meeting when common ground is not found. 
42
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood business
Corporate governance information, including our bylaws, charters, guidelines and policies, is available on stryker.com, and we include further details about governance topics in our proxy statement. We also provide periodic disclosures in our SEC filings.Board of Directors
Kevin A. Lobo * Allan C. Golston †‡§ Mary K. Brainerd ‡§ Giovanni Caforio, M.D. ‡§ Srikant M. Datar, Ph.D. **
Sherilyn S. McCoy ‡§ Andrew K. Silvernail ** Lisa M. Skeete Tatum ** Ronda E. Stryker § Rajeev Suri **
John W . Brown
Chairman EmeritusFormer Chair, President and CEOHoward E. Cox, Jr.Director Emeritus*   Chair of the Board
†   Lead Independent Director** Audit Committee‡   Compensation Committee§   Governance and Nominating Committee
More information about our directors’ experience is available in our proxy statement.
See page 30 for Board diversity metrics.
43
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessLeadership team*
Kevin A. Lobo 
Chair, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentYin C. BeckerVice President, Chief Corporate Affairs OfficerGlenn S. BoehnleinVice President, Chief Financial Officer 
M. Kathryn (Katy) FinkVice President, Chief Human Resources Officer Robert S. Fletcher Vice President, Chief Legal Officer Viju S. MenonGroup President, Global Quality and Operations 
J. Andrew (Andy) Pierce Group President, MedSurg and Neurotechnology Spencer S. Stiles Group President, Orthopaedics and Spine
*
  38% of our senior leadership team identifies as racially/ethnically diverse, and 25% of our senior leadership team 
identifies as female.With appreciation
Timothy J. ScannellPresident, Chief Operating Officer
We sincerely thank Tim Scannell for his 31-year service to Stryker. During his time as president and chief operating officer, Tim accelerated our global growth, facilitated companywide synergies and assisted with the development of many of our leaders. Throughout his career, Tim supported his teams in developing business strategies that contributed to our category leadership positions through market-leading sales growth, consistent product innovation and a steady flow of value-building acquisitions. Tim focused on developing a culture of sales and marketing excellence and valued the privilege of interacting with our clinical customers.
David G. FurgasonVice President, Tax
We express our gratitude and appreciation to David Furgason for his 17 years of service and contributions to Stryker. Under David’s leadership, the Tax department expanded its global role to be an integral business partner  
by increasing collaboration, driving innovation and delivering meaningful results. 
44
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessOther officersOther leadership members
William E. Berry Jr. 
Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer
Jeanne M. Blondia 
Vice President, Finance and Treasurer 
Irene B. Corbe 
Vice President, Internal Audit 
Robert A. Cummings
Vice President, Tax
Alan E. Douville
Vice President, Chief Information Officer and Chief Information Security OfficerSean C. EtheridgeVice President, Corporate Secretary
Dana S. McMahon
Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer
Jody K. Powell 
Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance 
Preston W . Wells
Vice President, Investor RelationsDivisional leadership
J. Michael CarlinCustomer Solutions
Robert C. Cohen
Digital, Robotics and Enabling Technologies
Dylan B. Crotty
Instruments
Brent W . Ladd
Endoscopy
David M. Mercado
CraniomaxillofacialMichael H. Panos Trauma & Extremities
Mark H. Paul 
Neurovascular
Donald E. Payerle 
Joint Replacement
Charles E.  
Robinson, Jr. 
Spine
Bradford L. Saar 
MedicalRegional leadership
John P . Collings 
Asia Pacific
Maurice Ben-Mayor 
South Pacific 
Wesley B. Grant 
East Asia 
Gregory F . Holman
China 
Satoshi Mizusawa
Japan 
Meenakshi Nevatia 
India Stuart A.J. Silk EMEA, Canada,  
Latin America
Silvia Braga 
Latin America 
Dragana Bunjevac 
EEMEA 
Christophe J.M. 
DujardinEurope
Lindsay A. Williams
Canada 
45
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessCorporate responsibility governance
Our mission and values, company strategy, code of conduct and code of ethics are 
the foundation from which we embark on our corporate responsibility (CR) journey. In enterprise risk management and strategy development, our Board of Directors considers environmental, social and economic risks. The Board entrusts responsibility to Stryker’s leaders who direct local management responsible for implementation. In February 2021, we amended our Governance and Nominating Committee Charter to give this Board committee oversight of CR matters. Stryker anticipates including ESG metrics in the compensation plans of select Named Executive Officers (NEOs) in the future. The details of our NEOs’ compensation plan for 2022 will be disclosed in the proxy statement for our 2023 Annual Shareholders Meeting.
Our CR Steering Committee includes three executive officers who report to the CEO. 
This committee, along with other leadership team members, provides regular updates to Stryker’s leadership team, updates to the Governance and Nominating Committee three times per year, and annual updates to the full Board of Directors. The Steering Committee is guided by its charter, which also provides accountability.
Risk assessment
Stryker has a variety of programs and processes  in place to identify and assess a range 
of strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks, including the risk of anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices, and information security 
threats. The Board and the Audit Committee and the Governance and Nominating Committee meets regularly throughout the year with our Group Presidents and our Finance, Information Security, Tax, Treasury, Internal Audit, Legal and Compliance management teams to assess the financial, legal/compliance, cybersecurity and operational/strategic risks throughout our businesses and review our insurance and other risk management programs and policies to enable the Board to exercise its ultimate oversight responsibility for the company’s risk management processes. Our risk programs, related activities and governance are designed to oversee efforts to identify emerging risks and implement comprehensive initiatives to manage them where appropriate. Corporate governance at Stryker
Board Governance and Nominating Committee
Oversees CR matters
CEO and senior leadershi p
Direct local management who are responsible for  
implementing the Board’s risk management strategy
CR Steering Committee
Oversees ESG strategy, goals and reporting; 
provides feedback to the CEO and leadership team
   CR Steering Committee
 -Mike Anderson, APAC
 -Yin Becker, Corporate Affairs
 -Eileen Buckley, Corporate Responsibility
 -Gemma de Koning, EMEA, LATAM and Canada
 -Sean Etheridge, Corporate Secretary
 -Katy Fink, Human Resources
 -Jennifer James, Finance
 -Viju Menon, Global Quality and Operations 
 -Jodie Morrow and Matt Moreau,  
 Commercial Business
 -Erol Odabasi, Corporate Sustainability 
 -Preston Wells, Investor Relations 
46
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessInformation
security and privacy
As a global company supporting operations in more than 75 countries, 
having an advanced information technology (IT) infrastructure is critical. 
Our IT organization supports 38,000 requests 
monthly, thousands of digital meetings weekly and system changes that we must constantly monitor.
34 We work diligently to provide 
that the organization can operate efficiently, and to protect the interests and privacy of our employees, customers, patients and our stakeholders. Our global chief information officer and chief information security officer brief the Board of Directors at least annually and, beginning in 2022, will brief the Audit Committee at least three times a year on company policies and practices with respect to cybersecurity risk assessment and risk management.We seek protection of intellectual property that we own and develop, and we respect the valid intellectual property rights of others. We also respect the privacy of our customers, employees and third parties and have processes and policies designed to protect information.
47
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessCybersecurity
Mindful that cybercrime is becoming more widespread and sophisticated, our cybersecurity program  
is multifaceted and continuously improving. Our program includes a Security Operations and Cyber 
Fusion Center that monitors and detects threat activity 24/7 to proactively gather, analyze and act upon relevant intelligence to defend Stryker and our customers. Program activities include risk management, compliance assurance, data breach management, regulatory and compliance. 
We continue to evolve and improve the program by conducting security-related exercises quarterly. 
Further, as an ISO 27001-certified organization, our Quality Management Program includes internal and external security reviews of products and systems, and is developed in accordance with security  
and privacy-by-design principles.
Central to these efforts is our CyberSecurity, CyberRisk and IT Compliance (CCI) team,  
whose goal is to keep Stryker’s data and assets secure while ensuring a rapid response  
to cyber threats and mitigating identified risks to an acceptable level. In 2021, the  
team advanced this goal in several ways:
 -Expanded CCI’s organizational portfolio  
 to include two new digital and program  
 focus areas
 -Diversified our global footprint by  
 building a new security operations  
 center in Costa Rica
 -Responded to new cybersecurity laws  
 in China by partnering with IT Operations  
 to develop a go-forward strategy that  
 seeks to ensure business operations are  
 secure, functional and co mpliant with  
 the region’s requirements
48
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessStryker’s team of cybersecurity experts follows 
leading industry practices and methodologies 
and leverages artificial intelligence and machine learning to provide state-of-the-art global cybersecurity protection. The team holds over 130 security, risk and compliance certifications. We have strong relationships with government partners, cybersecurity industry partners and security researchers to enhance our cybersecurity profile across our highly regulated and controlled infrastructure for facilities, data and assets. Additionally, all Stryker personnel with network access undergo mandatory security education several times a year to better understand security risks and confirm Policy compliance, including role-specific security and data protection training. Employees also receive frequent communications around pertinent security topics and policies throughout the year. 
As we acquire and integrate new businesses, 
our experts require cybersecurity and privacy assessments on all third parties who integrate with Stryker’s data, network, systems and products. We also perform supplemental reviews commensurate with the risk associated with vendors, using a combination of our Security Operations Center and external tools. Business  ethics and 
ethical marketing
Making healthcare better means conducting all aspects of business 
ethically and lawfully. Our code of conduct, along with our code of ethics,  
is in place to support companywide compliance to this commitment. 
These documents establish policies and standards 
that guide employees, officers and directors in the performance of their duties and responsibilities. 
Code of conduct
Our code of conduct applies to all employees, officers and directors of Stryker and our  
domestic and foreign subsidiaries. It is available in 23 languages on our website. Failure to observe 
our code of conduct or any other company policy may result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment where appropriate. Stryker employees certify to the code of conduct on an annual basis and undertake annual compliance training.In 2021, we launched a project to refresh our code of conduct to reflect our culture, mission and values and provide clear and practical guidance to empower employees in day-to-day decision-making. The updated code will focus on the core principles underlying our expectations around ethical conduct and include supporting materials that provide further explanation and examples in practice. 
49
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessCode of ethics
Our code of ethics applies to Stryker’s principal 
executive officer, president, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller, and is supplemental to the code of conduct. The code of ethics addresses transparent reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Compliance
All of Stryker’s leaders and employees are responsible for compliance. The Global Compliance and Privacy team partners across the organization to reduce compliance risk and enable business growth by providing day-to-day guidance, tailoring the compliance program to the prioritized risk and strengthening the shared commitment to ethics and compliance across the organization.
During mergers and acquisitions, Stryker’s 
specialists work closely with local compliance officers and external advisors to evaluate potential acquisition targets and identify any business practices that don’t currently align with our high ethical standards. Before the closing of a transaction, the compliance team partners with the Stryker business team to identify practices of the target that will need to be adapted after closing to meet Stryker’s expectations. 
The compliance team also onboards acquired 
companies into Stryker’s compliance program through education on compliance policies, implementation of Stryker’s compliance systems and completion of due diligence on third-party business partners. We continuously monitor integration progress to ensure all timelines are met and processes have been established to escalate any identified risks to compliance leadership. Once complete, every integration is evaluated to identify potential areas of improvement for consideration in future projects.
Advice and concerns
Stryker’s ethics hotline provides multiple avenues to raise concerns or allegations of non-compliance. Accessible via the web, telephone and SMS messaging, the hotline allows both employees and non-employees to report their concerns confidentially and anonymously, if desired. 
The ethics hotline committee has oversight 
responsibility for the hotline and receives regular reports on key trends and critical issues. In October 2021, a global Integrity Matters week took place that focused on the important role of people managers in fostering a Speak Up Culture and supporting employees who 
50
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessraise ethical concerns. In addition, Stryker’s 
compliance team partnered with other functions to create a framework to use lessons learned from investigations to implement process improvements or additional controls. The chief compliance officer provides the Governance and Nominating and Audit Committees of the Board of Directors a quarterly overview. 
Ethical marketing and sales
In our code of conduct, we explicitly state our commitment to accurately represent our products and services and comply with applicable regulatory and legal requirements governing their marketing and sale. Stryker also adopts the AdvaMed Code of Ethics and similar regional/local industry association codes as guidance for both internal sales force and indirect channel partners regarding ethical interactions with Healthcare Professionals (HCPs). Our Corporate Policy 5: On-Label Product Promotion  provides further 
guidance and direction on our commitment by making it clear that our employees, contractors, consultants and other third parties acting on Stryker’s behalf may only promote our products for uses consistent with the label. Likewise, 
our Corporate Policy #12: Improper Payments addresses topics around appropriate interactions with government officials and HCPs.
We distribute products through both our 
internal sales force and third parties or indirect channel partners. To maintain global excellence, we must ensure that anyone who sells Stryker’s products or represents the company exemplifies our mission and values. Our Indirect Channel Management (ICM) team provides global oversight, alignment and consistency in managing indirect channels (IC) across our geographic reach. This team maintains robust processes for sustainable growth and ensures that all IC partners operate to the highest professional standards required by Stryker. Additionally, our Global IC Governance Committee reviews and addresses restricted party decisions and manages the country entry and exit process. In 2021, we completed ICM program onboarding for all regions to adapt our IC business and governance model in a way that aligns with our growth strategy.
51
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessTraining
Our multilayered training and communication efforts focus on 
strengthening the shared commitment of employees, business partners  and the company to business ethics. Initiatives in 2021 included: 
 -Distributing our Global Integrity Matters newsletters to 33,000  
 employees in commercial entities worldwide and 5,000 Global Quality   
 and Operations (GQO) employees quar terly. These newsletters are  
 now available in 11 languages. 
 -Circulating new principles-based anti-bribery and anti-corruption  
 training to employees.
 -Continuing our Speak Up campaign with a Global Integrity Matters  
 W eek targeted to nearly 6,000 people managers. Themed “I listen,  
 I care, I act,” the week included a  series of virtual presentations, group  
 sessions and a self-paced Link edIn Learning path. The activities  
 enhanced managers’ ability to listen to and act on concer ns, create  
 psychological safety for employees and suppor t a transparent  
 investigation process. 
 -Launching a new Lessons Learned initiative for business and  
 functional leadership. Through Lessons Lear ned, leadership teams  
 can review and consider ethical challenges faced in other par ts of the  
 company , while proactively driving functional improvements in their  
 own areas. Human rights
Stryker respects all people’s rights, values a diverse and inclusive workforce and is committed to treating all employees with dignity and respect. We expect employees and suppliers to maintain a workplace free of discrimination, intimidation and unlawful harassment. And we expect our employees to report suspected or known conduct such as discrimination, harassment, fraud, unethical or unlawful conduct or retaliation. Our vice president and chief human resources officer oversees human rights policies  
and procedures for Stryker employees. 
52
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessProduct quality  
and safety
Our passion for product quality and safety stems from a companywide 
goal of creating better patient and caregiver outcomes. 
Our ability to deliver healthcare solutions that 
improve safety, efficacy, quality and efficiency creates a growth opportunity by allowing Stryker to maintain a reputation based on reliability and trust. This reputation is fundamental to our position as a global healthcare technology leader. 
Aligning closely with our mission and values, 
our Corporate Policy 9: Quality  is how we define 
quality for employees working throughout our organization. We are committed to meeting global regulatory standards, and we stand behind our products and address issues if they arise. 
To support this, we have a robust quality data 
program that includes key process indicators for different dimensions of quality. The data we gather through this program guides us in managing day-to-day quality activities and is regularly reviewed with executive leadership.
Quality Policy
At Stryker, quality is first in everything we do. We are driven to make healthcare better for our customers by providing innovative products and services that meet regulatory requirements through our effective quality system.
53
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessQuality  management metrics
U.S. FDA recalls 2018 2019 2020 2021
Number of FDA Class I recalls 1 0 1 0
Number of FDA Class II recalls 42 28 17 28
Normalized by revenue (Class I and II per billion dollars in revenue) 3.2 1.9 1.3 1.6
U.S. FDA Warning Letters 2018 2019 2020 2021
FDA Warning Letters received 0 0 0 0
FDA Warning Letters resolved 0 1 0 0
Inspections 2018 2019 2020 2021
Number of inspections by Notified Bodies and worldwide regulatory agencies 94 118 138 186
Average findings per audit 1.2 0.9 0.7 0.8
Number of FDA inspections 13 6 2 4
Average observations per inspection 0.2 1.2 0.0 0.8
Number of internal quality audits conducted N/A* N/A* 427 497
Number of corporate quality audits conducted 30 30 26 29
* P redates consolidated data for this metric
54
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessFor more information on our 
quality strategy, please see our website. Designing for quality
Strategic planning initiatives are tied to our quality planning program. To 
continually improve, we focus on strategies that will keep Stryker’s quality at the forefront of the industry while working with customers to make healthcare better. This starts with our new product development process, where we design for quality, manufacturability, serviceability and reliability. 
Throughout new product development, dedicated quality teams partner 
with design engineering teams to ensure that quality is baked into the entire product lifecycle. That lifecycle begins at manufacturing sites, where research and development teams focus early in the development process on designing for manufacturability and ensuring ongoing control of the manufacturing process. By putting controls in place during the first phase of development, we reduce rework and scrap, which also lowers manufacturing costs and waste. At the end of this lifecycle, feedback from current-generation products is delivered back to the research and development teams to help them improve next-generation designs.
Post-market surveillance 
Foundational to our quality management system is a continuous improvement program. At its core, continuous improvement is designed to empower employees to solve challenges that they encounter in their day-to-day work. Creating this type of environment with employees enables a proactive versus reactive culture within our organization.
Customer feedback is a valuable input to our product development and post-
market surveillance process. We use what we believe to be a best-in-class complaint handling process to receive, evaluate and investigate customer complaints, as well as to track and interpret trends from post-market information. The output of these post-market processes informs a corrective and preventive action process for continuous improvement.
Learn more about Stryker’s commitment to quality on our Global  
Quality webpage. 
World  Quality Week 
In November 2021, more than 40 Stryker sites around the world came together to celebrate World Quality Week—and if they were lucky, got a visit from our quality mascot, the “Koality Bear.” 
Throughout the week, leaders emphasized sustainability and the 
“Eight Wastes of Lean” to identify quality initiatives that could benefit Stryker. In-person and online activities, including a video competition, crossword competition, quiz and children’s poster competition, kept employees engaged and raised awareness.
55
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessEight types of waste
Transportation Inventory Motion
Waiting Over-processing Overproduction
Defects SkillsSupply chain management
Our supply chain centers on engagement with suppliers who share  
Stryker’s focus on quality and integrity. 
We seek and support strong relationships with a 
diverse group of suppliers who operate ethically and lawfully with an emphasis on accountability for their people and performance. 
As the global pandemic disrupted an increasingly 
complex global supply chain, our procurement team responded by working closely with suppliers to navigate supply constraints. Stryker invested in additional technologies and capabilities and created new roles to ensure supply chain continuity and resilience. We continue to collaborate with suppliers to help customers receive the products they need. Stryker formed the Procurement Center of Excellence in 2020, which includes resources dedicated to furthering supply chain transparency and supplier diversity, while initiating human rights and environmental assessments for targeted portions of our supply base, among other programs. In 2021, this team focused on developing a framework and capabilities to support our procurement team in addressing supplier ESG priorities. 
By the end of 2027 ,
Stryker will engage suppliers on  
ESG performance assessments  
with the goal of covering 85%  
of our direct spend. 
56
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessStrengthening our focus on  
supplier ESG
We strengthened supplier sustainability efforts  
by investing in our ESG assessment and monitoring capabilities, specifically in the areas  of human rights and labor, environment, ethics and sustainable procurement. This included initiating third-party assessments and ratings among 24.9 percent of our key direct suppliers and initiating self-assessments with an additional 129 suppliers. The results from these assessments are guiding us to identify priority impact areas where we can engage with our suppliers to build upon their capabilities and performance. We will also consider these findings as part of our procurement decisions and strategies. 
Conflict minerals
Aligning with our value of doing what’s right, we support the responsible procurement of all materials that go into our products. These include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (3TG) that may come from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding nations. We maintain a Conflict Minerals Policy and provide updates on these efforts in our Conflict Minerals Report, filed annually with the SEC. Additionally, we are members of the Responsible Minerals Initiative , 
whose mission is to unite industry in these efforts and provide companies with tools and resources to make decisions that improve regulatory compliance and support responsible procurement from conflict-affected and high-risk regions.
Supplier code of conduct
Our supplier code of conduct communicates our expectations for suppliers in key areas including: 
 -General business and ethics
 -Human rights
 -Labor and employment
 -Health, safety and environment
 -Intellectual property and data
Strict adherence to the code is required for any supplier doing business with us. We updated the code in 2021 to clearly communicate our expectations with suppliers in additional areas of ESG best practices. Our procurement team completes an annual supplier code of conduct training to ensure they can assist suppliers in 
meeting our expectations. In 2021, 99.7 percent of the team completed this training. We also require that Stryker employees who most frequently visit or interact with suppliers complete annual training on the prevention of forced labor and human trafficking in our supply chain, which educates them on risk factors, indicators and reporting methods. In 2021, 98.7 percent of these employees completed training. For additional information on our efforts in this area, please see our most recent disclosures specific to the U.K. 
Modern Slavery Act of 2015 and the Australian 
Modern Slavery Act of 2018.
57
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessSupplier diversity
As we strengthen our global supply chain, we’re 
focused on creating a competitive advantage by working with suppliers who reflect the diversity of our employees, the communities where we work, and the patients and caregivers that our products impact. Specifically, we are committed to increasing representation of minority-, women-, veteran-, disability- and LGBTQ-owned businesses and small businesses. Within these groups, we work to identify highly qualified suppliers that are agile, innovative and responsive, which helps us move faster in new product development and accelerate value to our customers. Overall, our strategy aims to expand the reach of our supplier diversity efforts and embed supplier diversity considerations across the business, rather than solely in procurement. Our Supplier Diversity Council—comprised of senior leaders from across the company—oversees the implementation of our strategy while developing aligned commitments for their functional areas. The council is committed to building awareness; identifying, retaining and growing current diverse suppliers; and identifying new diverse suppliers with potential to support future opportunities. To further reinforce these efforts, in 2021 our leadership released a global expectation that procurement managers seek and consider qualified diverse suppliers for new business opportunities. We support this expectation by making it easier for team members to find diverse suppliers within our procurement systems and through engagements with local and national diversity organizations, such as the National Minority Supplier Development Council, the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and, as of 2021, Disability:IN.  
Supplier quality management 
Suppliers with potential to impact quality are managed through our quality-controlled approved supplier list and are classified by category and risk. We work with suppliers early in the engagement process to foster strong connections with a shared focus on quality and continue to engage throughout the life of our supplier relationships. Supplier performance is measured both in the short term, for product quality, and  
in the long term, for overall capability. 
Our assessment of a supplier’s quality risk shapes 
both the approval and onboarding process. The approval process may include an assessment of a supplier’s capabilities, an initial audit, regulatory certifications and supplier agreements, based on a supplier’s risk. Stryker enters into quality agreements with suppliers that focus on quality, change control and communication expectations, in addition to definitions of roles and responsibilities, and applicable standards and legal requirements. 2021 North  
America spend 
>$255M
with diverse-owned  
businesses
>$800M
with small  
businesses
Supplier diversity goal
We are committed to increasing 
representation of minority-, women-, veteran-, disability- and LGBTQ-owned businesses and small businesses in our supply base through purposeful consideration in our procurement strategies and contracting opportunities.
58
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessWe set expectations with all product and  
service suppliers for controlling quality- 
impacting changes. Suppliers who propose a quality-impacting change use change control communication tools to ensure proper and  
timely communication, undergo a change  
review board approval and prioritization  
process, and collaborate with Stryker on  project planning and execution.
Our global supplier quality team is responsible 
for monitoring compliance with regulations and standards such as ISO 13485. We track supplier quality performance through data analytics and key performance indicators leveraging our Supplier Monitoring and Quality Performance Review (QPR) process, which subjects suppliers to audits tracked in our Supplier Audit Management system. Our QPR tool tracks product and audit nonconformances, corrective and preventive actions, product field actions, supplier defects per million and non-conformances that are not in Stryker’s control. Based on the results of the monitoring and the QPR review, we take additional actions to improve quality performance. 
In addition to the QPR process, regular process  
and quality system-based audits on high-risk  
suppliers drive improvements while also 
monitoring compliance, quality expectations and sub-tier supplier management. We also perform for-cause audits on suppliers identified through the supplier quality performance review. In 2021, we completed approximately 1,100 supplier quality audits. Through our supplier quality improvement program, we work with suppliers to improve their quality culture, processes and metrics.
59
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportGood businessHealthier  
planet
60Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportOperational impact
Our company is working to create a better, healthier world—and the 
connection between human health and the health of our planet is clear. 
People need safe, livable environments that aren’t threatened by increased risk of fires or floods. They need food and water security and access to clean air. To make a significant impact in human health, we must address climate change. 
With each passing year, this issue becomes more 
pressing, which is why Stryker has committed to goals of making our Scope 1 (direct site emissions) and Scope 2 (purchased electricity) greenhouse gas emissions carbon neutral by 2030. To ensure we stay on track, we’ve also set an interim goal of reaching a 20 percent reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2024 at all of our facilities, compared to a 2019 baseline. Our carbon emissions targets are aligned with the guidance  of the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)  to limit warming to 1.5 degrees above  
pre-industrial temperatures. 
61
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planet
Climate change is a huge 
challenge, and we are finding ways to address it. We are  taking action.”  
Erol Odabasi
Director, Corporate SustainabilityClimate disclosures
Our Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee 
provides governance to ensure that adequate resources are available to measure and report carbon emissions, reduce carbon emissions from energy consumption, and identify climate-related risks and opportunities. In 2021, we conducted a vulnerability assessment to assess potential physical and transitional climate-related risks and opportunities. Our reporting will continue to be informed by recommendations developed by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in four areas: governance, strategy, risk management and metrics and targets. For additional information on TCFD, please visit Stryker’s CR Hub .
We also publicly report our greenhouse gas emissions data and reduction initiatives annually through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP is an internationally recognized nonprofit organization that collects and reports environmental metrics. Currently, we report our direct and indirect energy use and emissions from all Stryker facilities and business travel. In 2021, we received a B score from CDP , with significant improvements noted in our disclosure of Scope 1 and 2 emissions without any exemptions, Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction targets and improved governance processes.
Energy and emissions
Our facilities have been making steady progress toward emissions reduction goals. Even though we’ve just begun our journey to carbon neutrality, we’ve already seen a drop in our global emissions of over 33,000 metric tons of CO2e from 2019 to 2020. That’s a 19.3 percent drop—the equivalent of cutting back on 83 million miles driven by an average passenger vehicle.
35 While this 
decrease was partially attributable to COVID-19-related shutdowns, we continue to drive down emissions by implementing energy efficiency and conservation measures, as well as purchasing renewable energy to power our facilities.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions
(MT C02e)
Scope 2 is market-based.
62
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetEHS and sustainability management
EHS and sustainability 
Guided by our Environmental, Health and 
Safety (EHS) Policy, we are in the process of certifying our facilities to the ISO 14001 standard, with 13 sites completed as of the end of 2021. This standard sets the criteria for an effective environmental management system and helps ensure that key performance metrics are accurately measured and tracked. Our newly implemented data software management system enables us to track important metrics globally. In 2021, we improved the data integrity of our energy and carbon emissions reporting  
and now have approximately 95 percent  
of our data reported from utility bills, up from  
70 percent in 2020.
Learn about the safety aspects of our EHS Policy .Vice President, Global Manufacturing and Operations 
Oversees manufacturing facilitiesGroup President, Global Quality and Business Operations
Vice President,  
Quality Assurance
Global EHS Director
Regional Managers 
Support EHS points of contact Sustainability DirectorResponsible for managing and 
reducing environmental impact of our value chain and supporting sustainability points of contact 
EHS and sustainability points of contact (each facility) 
Responsible for EHS compliance and supporting EHS program
63
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetEnergy conservation
Across the globe, our employees are rolling up their sleeves and implementing initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint. We conducted energy efficiency assessments at 11 of our top carbon-footprint sites, which resulted in the identification of more than 130 opportunities to reduce energy use. We also developed and distributed an energy efficiency playbook to 45 of our global sites to continue to implement energy standards and create a pipeline of future projects. We secured a multiyear capital investment of $20 million to reduce energy use and have approved or implemented over 50 projects that are expected to reduce CO2e emissions by over 15,000 tons. From installing LED lighting and updating equipment to fixing compressed air leaks and installing heat pumps, our facility teams are exhausting every option to help us reach our climate goals. 
Emissions reduction by the numbers* 
700 metric tons of carbon annual savings at our Cary, Illinois, U.S. facility after switching to efficient LED lighting in our warehouse and parking lot, upgrading HVAC units and repairing air compressor leaks
>450,000 kWh of electricity 
estimated annual savings at our Suzhou, China, facility after finishing a complete LED lighting upgrade and right-sizing the shop floor exhaust system for emerging optimization—enough energy to power approximately 40 homes
1,000 metric tons of carbon
approximate annual savings at our Mahwah, New Jersey, U.S. facility after optimizing controls, dryers and our compressed air system to increase efficiency 500 metric tons of carbontotal savings at our Portage, Michigan, U.S. facility after implementing heat recovery systems in the compressor room  
and insulating the fume collection system to reduce the need  
for conditioned air 
>250 metric tons of carbon
emissions reduction at our Kalamazoo, Michigan, U.S. world headquarters after upgrading our domestic hot water and pumping system 
*Selected projects. All reductions are estimates. 
64
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetEuropeRenewable energy
Using clean sources of energy is also a critical part of our strategy for achieving our climate goals. This year, we acted on our global climate commitments by selecting a renewable energy advisor, developing a renewable energy strategy and conducting renewable energy opportunity assessments for our facilities worldwide. 
Renewable energy procurement highlights 
IrelandWe are now seeing the benefits of a five-year renewable energy contract  we signed in 2019. By switching to locally generated wind energy, we substantially reduced the carbon footprint of our Ireland facilities and locked in cost savings, with over 50 million kWh of wind energy used in 2021.
Netherlands
To supplement the solar energy that we already generate onsite in our Central  Distribution Center in Venlo, we secured another renewable energy contract  that we expect will save an additional 1,200 tons of carbon emissions per year  
through the utilization of 100 percent renewable electricity from EU wind sources.
Germany
Our manufacturing sites in Kiel, Freiburg, Stetten and Tuttlingen are powered by hydroelectric energy.To support our 2030 carbon neutral goal, we also furthered efforts to secure renewable energy sources locally at the sites where we operate around the world. Here are a few examples of locations we focused on in 2021: 
We’ve made significant strides in addressing our carbon footprint 
through transitioning to renewable energy sources. As a result, renewable energy supplied over 19 percent of our electricity use across Stryker in 2020.
65
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetGreen buildings
With a global presence including more than  40 manufacturing facilities, ensuring these buildings meet high standards for energy efficiency is key to our climate strategy. To validate these improvements, we pursue certifications from the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM)  
certification programs. In addition to assessing energy usage, these certifiers also consider the building’s impact on the health and wellbeing of our people. By working with these organizations to evaluate and certify the environmental impact and sustainability of our buildings, we are helping to reduce our carbon footprint and support the health of our employees. In 2021, we added four buildings to our existing portfolio of 11 LEED and BREEAM certified sites: 
 -Fort Lauderdale, Florida, U.S. (LEED)
 -Warsaw, Poland (BREEAM) 
 -Tijuana, Mexico (certification pending)
 -Waterdown, Ontario, Canada (LEED)
Scope 3 carbon emissions
We recognize that a significant portion of Stryker’s carbon emissions are in our value chain outside of electricity and energy consumption at our global sites. In 2021, we initiated a comprehensive review to establish the baseline for our Scope 3  
carbon emissions, which will be used to develop goals informed by the SBTi. The results of this assessment will be disclosed in our 2022 supplemental environmental report.
Transportation
We contract with over 300 transportation carriers to move our products from our facilities to customers around the world. In 2021, we officially became a member of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay program, which is expected to help us better track our transportation impact. This voluntary program helps companies improve their freight transportation efficiency with comprehensive systems for documenting fuel use and identifying more efficient freight carriers and transport modes. 
We continue to collaborate with our product 
development teams to optimize packaging so we can maximize the number of products we transport and minimize wasted space.
China  
To reduce tailpipe emissions from our logistics, our distribution center deployed four electric vehicle trucks for short distance trips. India  We improved the packaging efficiency for shipments in our India distribution centers, resulting in improved efficiencies in  
outbound shipments. 
East Asia  
We switched to a new green logistics provider for shipping throughout the region.
Asia Pacific  
Our ocean freight utilization was increased, reducing our international freight carbon footprint by over 300 tons.
66
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetWaste  
In addition to addressing our climate impact, we also strive to  
minimize the amount of waste we send to landfills to help conserve 
valuable resources. Here are a few highlights from the year:
Arroyo, Puerto Rico, U.S.  
This facility performed regular audits to ensure that waste was correctly segregated and identified opportunities to recover materials. To reduce the use of raw materials, we made improvements to scrap reduction processes and redesigned two packaging methods. Overall, this facility achieved a decrease of 33 percent in just one year. 
Limerick, Ireland  
The dust from this facility’s extractor machines was once sent to landfill, but is now collected to be used in products like Eco-Cement. Diverting this waste stream keeps 20 tons of material out of landfills each year. We are also collecting vitalium metal shavings, blast media and wax polish so they can be reused as raw material inputs.
Newbury/Stanmore, U.K.  
A newly implemented recycling scheme for our titanium swarf, which  
is debris left over from our manufacturing process, has helped us save  
3.5 tons from the landfill to date. Recovering this expensive metal also results in cost savings.
Pusignan, France  
Through implementing specialized waste collection bins, this team  was able to successfully reduce their waste by 44.2 tons.A bold commitment and new growth in Ireland
67
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetOur Ireland facilities have long been environmental leaders, sourcing  
100 percent renewable energy for all manufacturing sites since 2019.  
Now, they are going one step further by pledging to address Scope 3 emissions in addition to meeting Stryker’s companywide Scope 1  
and 2 goals. By becoming a signatory to the Business in the Community 
Ireland Low Carbon Pledge, we are joining dozens of other businesses  
in the movement to reach global carbon reduction targets set in the  
Paris Climate Agreement. 
Our green initiatives grow when local employees and community members 
come together. At our Limerick facility, employees collaborated with Limerick City Tidy Town—a group dedicated to planting small forests in urban areas—to cultivate a small woodland of 1,500 saplings. The densely planted saplings will grow taller than standalone trees, allowing them to absorb five times more carbon.
36 In Cork County, Stryker partnered with  
the Industrial Development Agency to develop a new pedestrian greenway that will connect towns across the county. Water   
Fresh water is one of our world’s most 
precious resources, and we all must share a finite amount. Stryker recognizes that water usage is a component to our manufacturing processes, which is why we are taking steps to track and reduce our consumption. In 2021, we improved our data assurance process to accurately measure our water use across all manufacturing sites. In the future, measuring water consumption companywide will allow us to more effectively manage our usage and identify opportunities to improve.
Several facilities have made significant strides 
in reducing water consumption. Recent progress includes:
Anngrove, Ireland  
Through a recent engineering project, this facility reduced freshwater usage and shipping expenses by incorporating more waste filters per barrel. 
Limerick, Ireland 
This facility is enhancing our comprehensive stormwater protection program to improve water quality and was recently named a finalist for the National Green Business’s Sustainable Water Achievement Award for our past efforts in reducing water consumption.Arroyo, Puerto Rico, U.S. With the installation of a new wastewater evaporation system in our machine center area, we reduced wastewater by 20 percent. This system allows us to separate and condense waste, significantly reducing landfill costs and water discharge amounts. This facility is also reusing and recycling solvents and taking other precautions to prevent water contamination. 
Employee engagement
Our employees deeply value sustainability and are motivated to help us reach our goals. In 2021, we created Stryker’s Environmental Alliance community, with more than  
450 members and counting, where employees can easily connect and share best practices  
on environmental sustainability, education and climate action. 
In 2021, our teams focused on hosting various 
educational webinars, speaker series and volunteering events to increase sustainability and climate change awareness.
68
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetProduct design
and lifecycle management
Our products positively impact our customers and their patients’ health  
and quality of life—yet they also leave an environmental footprint. 
Our research and development and global 
manufacturing teams worldwide are driving improvements to reduce our product footprint throughout their lifecycles. 
From seeking out more environmentally responsible 
materials to identifying efficiency improvements, we strive to meet customer requests for more sustainable products and packaging. We have established comprehensive, companywide processes to ensure that product designs meet safety and quality regulations and standards. Rigorous environmental procedures in our product development process comply with restricted substance regulations, increase energy efficiency, aim to reduce the use of chemicals of concern and promote responsible management of our products at the end of their useful life. In 2021, Stryker participated in the Chemical Footprint Project to share our governance on chemical management across our supply chain, products and packaging, and manufacturing processes. We also joined the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council, a private technical coalition of industry peers across healthcare, recycling and waste management industries seeking to improve recyclability of plastic products and packaging within the healthcare industry.  
69
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetSustainability Solutions
Medical waste is a growing problem. The average 
hospital generates 29 pounds of waste per bed 
every day, and this volume has only increased 
with the coronavirus, amplifying demand for 
single-use items.37,38 Improper management of 
discarded medical waste poses a health risk to 
the public, patients, healthcare professionals 
and waste management workers.39 To help 
address these issues, our Sustainability Solutions 
business provides reprocessing services for 
single-use medical devices, which reduces waste 
and extends the useful life of these products. 
As the leading provider of these services, 
Sustainability Solutions safely collects items 
at hospitals; sorts, disassembles and repairs 
damaged parts when necessary; then cleans 
devices. We then inspect, test, package and 
sterilize devices before shipping them back to the 
customer for clinical use. More than 21 types of 
devices spanning thousands of SKUs are collected 
and reprocessed, thereby diverting waste from 
landfills and helping to support a circular 
economy. In 2021, Sustainability Solutions 
became the first Stryker business to begin using 
vaporized hydrogen peroxide (VHP) sterilization 
on a portion of our patient care devices. VHP 
is a nontoxic alternative to ethylene oxide (EO) 
sterilization, and Sustainability Solutions has set 
a goal to reduce EO usage by 20 percent by 2025.
In addition to minimizing waste at a product’s 
end of life, Sustainability Solutions launched the 
Redesigned for Sustainability initiative to address 
impacts throughout the entire product lifecycle. 
This initiative was developed with valuable 
input from our customers who helped us identify 
six priority areas: sourcing, manufacturing, 
component design, material and chemical use, 
waste solutions and packaging. To support this 
effort, the business provided training to their 
new product development teams. The trainings 
were specially tailored to each team to showcase 
concrete ways they could incorporate sustainable 
design elements into existing and future projects.
Additive manufacturing
Additive manufacturing (AM), also known as 
3D printing, is another approach to product 
design that reduces environmental impact by 
leveraging more efficient material usage, better 
product designs and more sustainable supply 
chain transportation. AMagine is Stryker’s 
proprietary approach to creating implants 
using AM, which we have honed over the last 
20 years. Beyond reducing waste, AMagine 
enables the execution of previously difficult or 
impossible product designs. We have developed 
new products across multiple businesses using 
this technology and sell more metal orthopaedic 
implants using AM technology than any other 
medical device company in the world. To share our expertise and learn from 
others, we are members of the Additive 
Manufacturing Green Trade Association 
(AMGTA), a global trade group created to 
promote and advance the environmental 
benefits of AM. A recent study commissioned 
by the AMGTA predicts that AM could reduce 
global energy usage by 25 percent by 2050. 
Over the past five years,  
3,000 customers
saved $1 billion through reprocessing 
programs and diverted 27 million  
pounds of waste from landfills.
70
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetStryker’s proprietary Tritanium In-Growth 
Technology, used to build the posterior  
lumbar and anterior cervical cages,  
has been designed for bone in- 
growth40 and biological fixation.
Tritanium
Our Tritanium Posterior Lumbar Cage—a spinal implant created with our AM technology—is designed with a roughened porous surface. Studies show that, compared to a smooth surface, the porous design makes it easier for the implant to connect with surrounding bone.
40,41,42,43,44 Precise engineering and optimized cage design work 
together to help minimize settling and create better health outcomes.45,46  
The environmental outcomes improve, too, as using AM to make the product creates almost zero waste.
71
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportHealthier planetCreating  a cleaner operating room
Beyond reducing waste involved in the design and 
manufacturing of our products, Stryker is also helping customers limit fluid waste in the operating room. During surgery, healthcare providers can encounter potentially hazardous bodily fluids that they must carefully dispose of. Prior to Stryker’s Neptune Waste Management system, operating room staff would ensure fluids were carefully 
cleaned from an operating theater and transferred   
 for disposal via open canisters or waste bins. The  
   Neptune 3 is the only constantly closed system  
    on the market, protecting staff from exposure to  
    collected fluids by containing surgical liquid  
     waste from collection through disposal.
          Says Peter Huttley, a waste management  
           specialist supporting James Paget  
           University Hospital in the U.K., “Benefits  
            of the system include making the working  
            environment safer, reducing waste and  
            reducing the time needed between patients  
            to free up operating theatres. The machines  
            are also reducing the risk of slips and falls  
            and have reduced the materials needed  
            for cleaning.”  
References
2021 in review
1.  Boileau P , Cheval D, Gauci, MD, Holzer N, Chaoui J, Walch G. Automated three-dimensional measurement of glenoid version and inclination in arthritic shoulders. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2018 
Jan 3;100(1)57-65. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.16.01122.
2.  Donohue K, Ricchetti E, Ho J, Iannotti J. The association between rotator cuff muscle fatty infiltration and glenoid morphology in glenohumeral osteoar thritis. J Bone Joint Surg 
Am.2018;100:381-387. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.17.00232. 
3.  Werner B, Hudek R, Burkhart K, Gohlke F . The influence of three-dimensional planning on decision-making in total shoulder arthroplasty. J Shoulder Elbow Surg.  2017 Aug;26(8):1477-1483. 
doi: 10.1016/j.jse.2017.01.006. Epub 2017 Feb 2. 
4.  Bell SW , Anthony I, Jones B, MacLean A, Rowe P , Blyth M. Improved accuracy of component positioning with robotic-assisted unicompartmental knee arthroplasty: Data from a prospective, 
randomized controlled study. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2016;98(8):627-635. doi:10.2106/JBJS.15.00664.
5.  Illgen RL Nd, Bukowski BR, Abiola R, et al. Robotic-assisted total hip arthroplasty: Outcomes at minimum two-year follow-up. Surg Technol Int. 2017;30:365-372. 
6.  Mahoney O, Kinsey T, Mont M, Hozack W , Orozco F , Chen A. Can computer generated 3D bone models improve the accuracy of total knee component placement compared to manual 
instrumentation?: A prospective multi-center evaluation. International Society for Technology in Arthroplasty 32nd Annual Congress. Toronto, Canada. October 2-5, 2019.
7.  Suarez-Ahedo C, Gui C, Martin TJ, Chandrasekaran S; Lodhia P , Domb B. Robotic-arm assisted total hip arthroplasty results in smaller acetabular cup size in relation to the femoral head size: 
A matched-pair controlled study. Hip Int. 2017;27(2):147-152. doi:10.5301/hipint.5000418.
8.  Kayani B, Konan S, Pietrzak JRT, Haddad FS. Iatrogenic bone and soft tissue trauma in robotic-arm assisted total knee arthroplasty compared with conventional jig-based total knee 
arthroplasty: A prospective cohort study and validation of a new classification system. J Arthroplasty. 2018;33(8):2496-2501. doi:10.1016/j.arth.2018.03.042.
9.  Hozack WJ, Chen AF , Khlopas A, et al. Multicenter analysis of outcomes after robotic-arm assisted total knee arthroplasty. Presented at: The Knee Society (TKS) 2018 Members Meeting; 
September 20-22, 2018; Saint Louis, MO.
10.  Banks SA. Haptic robotics enable a systems approach to design of a minimally invasive modular knee arthroplasty. Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ) . 2009;38(2 Suppl):23-27. 
11.  Hampp E, Chang TC, Pearle A. Robotic partial knee arthroplasty demonstrated greater bone preservation compared to robotic total knee arthroplasty. Annual Orthopaedic Research Society. 
February 2-5, 2019; Austin, TX.
72
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportAppendixStronger people
12.  Magill SS, Edwards JR, Bamberg W , et al. Multistate point-prevalence survey of health care-associated infections. N Engl J Med. 2014;370(13):1198-1208. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1306801.
13.  Makary MA, Daniel M. Medical error-the third leading cause of death in the US. BMJ. 2016;353:i2139. Published 2016 May 3. doi:10.1136/bmj.i2139.
14.  Health Research & Educational Trust. Preventing hospital acquired pressure ulcers/injuries (HAPU/I). 2017. Chicago, IL. http://patientcarelink.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/2017-hapu_
change_package_508.pdf  Accessed February 8, 2022. 
15.  Magill SS, O’Leary E, Janelle SJ, et al. Changes in prevalence of health care-associated infections in U.S. hospitals. N Engl J Med. 2018;379(18):1732-1744. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1801550.
16.  Jones A. Stryker builds surgical safety business with no-mistakes sponge system. M Live. https://www.mlive.com/news/kalamazoo/2017/09/stryker_builds_surgical_safety.html Accessed 
February 8, 2022. 
17.  Hill DS, O’Neill JK, Powell RJ, Oliver DW . Surgical smoke - a health hazard in the operating theatre: a study to quantify exposure and a survey of the use of smoke extractor systems in  
UK plastic surgery units. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 2012;65(7):911-916. doi:10.1016/j.bjps.2012.02.012.
18.  World Health Organization. Global monitoring report on financial protection in health 2019. Geneva. https://www.who.int/healthinfo/universal_health_coverage/report/fp_gmr_2019.pdf?ua=1  
Accessed February 8, 2022. 
19.  Slomski A. Why do hundreds of US women die annually in childbirth?. JAMA . 2019;321(13):1239-1241. doi:10.1001/jama.2019.0714.
20.  Kayani B, Konan S, Tahmassebi J, Pietrzak JRT, Haddad FS. Robotic-arm assisted total knee arthroplasty is associated with improved early functional recovery and reduced time to hospital 
discharge compared with conventional jig-based total knee arthroplasty: a prospective cohort study. Bone Joint J. 2018;100-B(7):930-937. doi:10.1302/0301-620X.100B7.BJJ-2017-1449.R1.
21.  Bhimani SJ, Bhimani R, Smith A, Eccles C, Smith L, Malkani A. Robotic-assisted total knee arthroplasty demonstrates decreased postoperative pain and opioid usage compared to conventional 
total knee arthroplasty. Bone Jt Open. 2020;1(2):8-12. Published 2020 Oct 27. doi:10.1302/2633-1462.12.BJO-2019-0004.R1.
22.  Marchand RC, Sodhi N, Anis HK, et al. One-year patient outcomes for robotic-arm-assisted versus manual total knee arthroplasty. J Knee Surg. 2019;32(11):1063-1068. 
doi:10.1055/s-0039-1683977.
23.  Bukowski BR, Anderson P , Khlopas A, Chughtai M, Mont MA, Illgen RL 2nd. Improved Functional Outcomes with Robotic Compared with Manual Total Hip Arthroplasty. Surg Technol Int. 
2016;29:303-308. 
24.  Malkani AL, Roche MW , Kolisek FR, et al. Manipulation under anesthesia rates in technology-assisted versus conventional-instrumentation total knee arthroplasty. Surg Technol Int. 
2020;36:336-340. 
25.  Kleeblad LJ, Borus TA, Coon TM, Dounchis J, Nguyen JT, Pearle AD. Midterm survivorship and patient satisfaction of robotic-arm-assisted medial unicompartmental knee arthroplasty:  
A multicenter study. J Arthroplasty. 2018;33(6):1719-1726. doi:10.1016/j.arth.2018.01.036.
26.  Domb BG, Chen JW , Lall AC, Perets I, Maldonado DR. Minimum 5-year outcomes of robotic-assisted primary total hip arthroplasty with a nested comparison against manual primary total hip 
arthroplasty: A propensity score-matched study. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2020;28(20):847-856. doi:10.5435/JAAOS-D-19-00328.
27.  Cool CL, Jacofsky DJ, Seeger KA, Sodhi N, Mont MA. A 90-day episode-of-care cost analysis of robotic-arm assisted total knee arthroplasty. J Comp Eff Res. 2019;8(5):327-336. doi:10.2217/
cer-2018-0136.
28.  Mont MA, Cool C, Gregory D, Coppolecchia A, Sodhi N, Jacofsky DJ. Health care utilization and payer cost analysis of robotic arm assisted total knee arthroplasty at 30, 60, and 90 days.  
J Knee Surg. 2021;34(3):328-337. doi:10.1055/s-0039-1695741.
29.  Pierce J, Needham C, Adams C, Coppolecchia A, Lavernia C. Robotic arm-assisted knee surgery: An economic analysis. Presented at: Orthopaedic Research Society Annual Meeting.  
February 8-11, 2020; Phoenix, AZ. 
73
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportAppendix30.  Pierce J, Needham K, Adams C, Coppolecchia A, Lavernia C. Robotic assisted total hip arthroplasty: A 90-day episode of care cost analysis. Presented at: The Professional Society for Health 
Economics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) Annual Meeting; May 18-20, 2020; Virtual.
31.  Cool CL, Needham KA, Khlopas A, Mont MA. Revision analysis of robotic arm-assisted and manual unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. J Arthroplasty. 2019;34(5):926-931. doi:10.1016/j.
arth.2019.01.018.
32.  Internal Stryker data sourced 2021.
33.  Data on file, Sage Products LLC. 2021 Q1 and Q2 MATS Save Simply Report.  
 
Good business
34.  Heller M. How Stryker IT shifted to a global operating model. CIO. https://www.cio.com/article/3618179/how-stryker-it-shifted-to-a-global-operating-model.html  Accessed February 8, 2022.  
Healthier planet
35.  United States Environmental Protection Agency. Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. Updated March 2021. Accessed February 8, 2022. https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-
equivalencies-calculator  
36.  Broin CO. Medical devices company teams up with Limerick City Tidy Towns to plant ‘urban forest.’ Limerick Leader. December 15, 2021. Accessed February 8, 2022.  
https://www.limerickleader.ie/video/local-news/707966/watch-medical-devices-company-teams-up-with-limerick-city-tidy-towns-to-plant-urban-forest.html
37.  Peng Y, Wu P , Schartup AT, Zhang Y. Plastic waste release caused by COVID-19 and its fate in the global ocean. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2021;118(47):e2111530118. doi:10.1073/
pnas.2111530118.
38.  Practice Greenhealth. Waste. Accessed February 8, 2022. https://practicegreenhealth.org/topics/waste/waste-0
39.  United States Environmental Protection Agency. Medical Waste. Accessed February 8, 2022. https://www.epa.gov/rcra/medical-waste
40.  PROJ 43909.
41.  Kujala S, Ryhänen J, Danilov A, Tuukkanen J. Effect of porosity on the osteointegration and bone ingrowth of a weight-bearing nickel-titanium bone graft substitute. Biomaterials. 
2003;24(25):4691-4697. doi:10.1016/s0142-9612(03)00359-4.
42.  Karageorgiou V , Kaplan D. Porosity of 3D biomaterial scaffolds and osteogenesis. Biomaterials. 2005;26(27):5474-5491. doi:10.1016/j.biomaterials.2005.02.002.
43.  Bobyn JD, Pilliar RM, Cameron HU, Weatherly GC. The optimum pore size for the fixation of porous-surfaced metal implants by the ingrowth of bone. Clin Orthop Relat Res.  1980; 
(150):263-270. 
44.  Simon JL, Roy TD, Parsons JR, et al. Engineered cellular response to scaffold architecture in a rabbit trephine defect. J Biomed Mater Res A. 2003;66(2):275-282. doi:10.1002/jbm.a.10569.
45.  TRITA-SS-1.
46.  PROJ 42624.
74
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportAppendix 
About
this report
Stryker’s 2021 Comprehensive Report provides  
an integrated picture of our financial and ESG performance. Further reporting on other matters specific to financial performance can be found in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Further reporting on other matters specific to our corporate responsibility performance can be found on our CR Hub . 
This material references the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Our GRI content  
index is available on our CR Hub . We also include 
information sought by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index, providing disclosures against relevant SASB Standards. Our SASB content index is available on our CR Hub . 
The data contained in this report was reviewed by internal subject matter experts as well as members of Stryker’s leadership team. We believe this information accurately represents our performance in 2021. We welcome your questions and feedback on this report. Please contact us at: CR@stryker.com. 
75
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportAppendix 
Legal
disclaimers
This Report contains information that includes 
or is based on forward-looking statements within 
the meaning of the federal securities law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: the impact on our operations and financial results of the COVID-19 pandemic and any related policies and actions by governments or other third parties; unexpected liabilities, costs, charges or expenses in connection with the acquisition of Vocera Communications, Inc.; the effects of the Vocera transaction on the relationships of the parties with employees, customers, other business partners or governmental entities; weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for our products; pricing pressures generally, including cost-containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for our products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect United States Food and Drug Administration approval of new products, including Vocera products; potential supply disruptions; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payors; a significant increase in product liability claims; the ultimate total cost with respect to recall-related matters; the impact of investigative and legal proceedings and compliance risks; resolution of tax audits; the impact of the federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system; costs to comply with medical device regulations; changes in financial markets; changes in the competitive environment; our ability to integrate and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions in full or at all or within the expected timeframes, including the acquisition of Vocera; our ability to realize anticipated cost savings; and potential negative impacts resulting from environmental, social and governance (ESG) and sustainability related matters. Additional information concerning these and other factors is contained in our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We disclaim any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which those expectations may be based, or that affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.Stryker Corporation or its divisions or other corporate affiliated entities own, use or have applied for the following trademarks or service marks: AccuStop, AMagine, Blueprint, CustomerOne, Facial iD, gauss, Mako, Mixed Reality, Neptune, Our goal is zero, Prevalon, ProCuity, SafeAir, Safety-Sponge, Sage, SKILL, SmartRobotics, SPY-PHI, StrokEnomics, Stryker, SurgiCount, Surpass, Surpass Evolve, Together with our customers, we are driven to make healthcare better., Trauson, Tritanium, Triton, Wright Medical. All other trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners or holders.
Products may not be available in all markets. 
Product availability is subject to the regulatory and/or medical practices in individual markets. This report contains many of the valuable trademarks owned and/or used by Stryker and our subsidiaries and affiliates in the U.S. and internationally to distinguish products and services of outstanding quality. All other trademarks featured herein are the property of their respective owners. This document is governed solely by applicable U.S. laws and governmental regulations. Laws, regulations, and policies concerning reimbursement are complex, subject to change, and updated regularly.
76
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportAppendix 
Non-GAAP
reconciliation
Reconciliation  of the Most Directly Comparable GAAP Financial Measure to Non-GAAP Financial Measure
Net earnings ($ millions) Net earnings per diluted share
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Reported $1,647  $1,020  $3,553  $2,083  $1,599  $1,994 $4.35 $2.68 $9.34 $5.48 $4.20 $5.21
Acquisition and integration-related costs:
Inventory stepped-up to fair value   23  20  9  51  36  203  0.06  0.05  0.02  0.13  0.10  0.53 
Other acquisition and integration-related   77  31  90  160  157  244  0.20  0.09  0.24  0.42  0.41  0.64 
Amortization of purchased intangible assets  221  250  338  375  381  489  0.59  0.67  0.89  0.99  1.00  1.28 
Restructuring-related and other charges  98  155  179  180  397  345  0.26  0.41  0.47  0.47  1.04  0.90 
Medical device regulations  –    –    10  48  63  90  –    –  0.03  0.13  0.17  0.24 
Recall-related matters  127  131  18  154  13  89  0.34  0.34  0.05  0.41  0.03  0.23 
Regulatory and legal matters  (7)  25  141  (33)  8  (12)  (0.02)  0.06  0.37  (0.09)  0.02  (0.02)
Tax matters  8  833  (1,559)  121  173  32  0.02  2.19  (4.10)  0.32  0.46  0.08 
Adjusted $2,194 $2,465 $2,779 $3,139 $2,827 $3,474 $5.80 $6.49 $7.31 $8.26 $7.43 $9.09
Effective tax rate – reported 14.3% 50.6% (50.8%) 18.7% 18.2% 12.6%
Effective tax rate – adjusted 17.3% 15.6% 16.7% 15.8% 12.6% 14.9%
Weighted average diluted shares outstanding 378.5 380.1 380.3 379.9 380.3 382.3
Refer to our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, available at stryker.com, for additional information regarding our non-GAAP financial measures. 
77
Stryker
2021 Comprehensive ReportAppendix© 2022 Stryker | 2825 Airview Boulevard | Kalamazoo, MI 49002 USA stryker.com  | SYK CORP 2022-02-11