2018
NVIDIA SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018NVIDIA 2018 CSR REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
01
EXECUTIVE LETTERS
4 Message from our CEO
5 Message from our EVP of Operations
02
INTRODUCTION
7 About NVIDIA 
9 Governance and Ethics
11 Culture, Code, and Values
12 CSR Snapshot
13 Awards and Recognitions 
03
OUR PRIORITIES
15 Stakeholder Priorities
16 Company Priorities
17 2018 Priorities04
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
25 Stakeholder Engagement
27 Stakeholder Interactions
05
OUR OPERATIONS
30 Workforce and Inclusion
38 Environment, Health, and Safety
45 Product Design
48 Supplier Responsibility
53 Product Delivery
55 Social Impact 
56 Charitable Giving 
06
OUR PERFORMANCE
59 Goals and Performance
64 Economic
65 Workforce and Diversity
69 Environment
73 GRI Index  
80 About this Report01
EXECUTIVE  
LETTERSNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20184
EXECUTIVE LETTERS
LETTER FROM OUR CEO
Twenty-five years ago, we set out to transform computer 
graphics. Fueled by the massive growth of the gaming 
market and its insatiable demand for better 3D 
graphics, we’ve evolved the GPU into a computer brain 
at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance 
computing, and artificial intelligence. NVIDIA GPU 
computing has become the essential tool of the da Vincis 
and Einsteins of our time. For them, we’ve built the 
equivalent of a time machine.
In fact, one of Einstein’s own predictions was recently 
proven with the help of NVIDIA GPU computing. For the 
first time in human history, a team of scientists detected 
and measured gravity waves — a feat Einstein himself 
doubted possible — opening an important new chapter 
of scientific advance and earning the 2017 Nobel Prize in 
Physics in the process.
But the outer edges of scientific discovery are only part 
of the story of how GPU computing is contributing to 
human progress. AI, the use of computers to simulate 
and augment human intelligence, is well on its way to 
revolutionizing every industry.
In healthcare, early detection is the most powerful 
weapon against disease. We’re contributing directly by 
bringing AI to medical imaging technologies like MRI, CT, 
and ultrasound. GE Healthcare has reinvented the CT, 
doubling image processing speeds by embedding GPU-
powered AI in its state-of-the-art Revolution Frontier CT 
scanner. Going further, we recently introduced the Clara 
medical imaging supercomputer, which can modernize 
millions of the world’s aging scanning devices. By 
connecting these devices to advanced AI capabilities in 
the cloud, Clara can turn standard 2D scans into fully 
segmented 3D imagery. 
AI will also modernize the $10 trillion transportation 
industry. Autonomous vehicles promise to make our 
roads safer and our cities more efficient. They’ll open 
personal transportation to people previously left behind: 
the disabled, the elderly, and others for whom driving 
simply isn’t possible today. Automakers and suppliers 
are using the NVIDIA DRIVE platform to design and train 
these self-driving cars of tomorrow — to detect objects and plan paths that keep cars and pedestrians out of 
harm’s way. Our newest addition to the platform, DRIVE 
Constellation, lets the makers of self-driving cars add 
billions of training miles to their fleets in the completely 
safe world of virtual reality.
Across the board, our technology is designed for maximum 
energy efficiency. From the smallest elements of 
processor design to the largest cloud datacenters in the 
world, we work relentlessly on innovations that deliver 
maximum performance per watt of electricity. Our most 
recent datacenter product, the Volta-based DGX-2, can 
deliver the same performance of hyperscale CPU server 
clusters but at 1/18th the power consumption. This 
represents an enormous opportunity to make the world’s 
computing resources dramatically more efficient.
These are just a few examples. It’s truly amazing what 
we can all accomplish as this new, supercharged form 
of computing delivers a 1,000x leap in performance over 
the next decade. 
As we celebrate our 25th anniversary, our ability to 
tackle the greatest challenges of our time has never 
been better. We will continue to approach our work the 
NVIDIA way — applying our amazing capabilities to the 
tough problems that we’re uniquely suited to tackle and 
that bring us incredible joy. In short, to do our life’s work.
Jensen Huang  
CEO & Co-Founder
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20185
EXECUTIVE LETTERS
LETTER FROM OUR EVP, OPERATIONS
For 25 years, NVIDIA has enabled pioneering 
transformations in gaming, computer graphics, and 
high-performance computing. In recent years, we’ve 
provided the underlying technologies that make 
innovations in artificial intelligence and autonomous 
driving possible. 
As we continue to develop and enhance revolutionary 
products that improve lives through technology, we 
remain steadfast in our commitment to integrate social 
and environmental responsibility into all aspects of 
our company. We strive to respect and safeguard 
human rights in our operations and supply chain, and 
we conduct our business using sound environmental 
practices. We invest in our local communities and the 
wider global community. 
Our stakeholders value these efforts and recognize 
NVIDIA for purposefully developing energy efficient 
products, improving resource efficiency, and advancing 
human rights through our business practices.
To inform our sustainability strategy, a committee of 
about 20 employees works closely with executive staff to 
identify our annual priority issues. It integrates feedback 
from key external stakeholders. And it prioritizes risks 
and opportunities in cooperation with our executives and 
board of directors. 
To execute on our sustainability priorities, including 
Innovation, Supply Chain and Product Quality, Talent 
Management Strategy, and Cybersecurity, we have 
established three primary objectives: 
1. Operational efficiency and excellence
2. Employee recruitment and retention
3. Risk and reputation management
Within these objective areas, we:
> Design products that maximize performance and 
minimize energy use
> Increase employee diversity and foster inclusion
> Minimize risk in our supply chain
> Evaluate emerging risks and opportunities related to 
growing our brand 
> Respond to increasing calls from stakeholders to 
provide performance data and transparency around 
the sustainability issues most important to them
> Set goals and monitor our progress toward them
We adhere to the Global Reporting Initiative in our 
reporting processes and continue to align our social 
impact efforts with the United Nation’s Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDG). In this year’s report, we 
further aligned our activities with these goals to better 
highlight our contributions toward the U.N.’s targets.
In FY2018, NVIDIA continued to make progress on our 
priority issues. Highlights include:  > Expanding our inclusion efforts by rolling out 
nontraditional parenting benefits, such as increased 
adoption coverage, in vitro fertilization, and egg 
freezing
> Implementing a performance-based award system 
for suppliers that includes their active efforts to 
improve social and environmental performance
> Achieving recognition in significant rankings, such 
as Fast Company’s Most Innovative Companies, 
Fortune’s Businessperson of the Year, the Global100, 
Bloomberg’s Gender Diversity Index, Fortune’s Best 
Places to Work, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, 
and the CDP
> Adding corporate social responsibility to the oversight 
responsibilities of the Nominating and Governance 
Committee of our Board of Directors
Our ability to tackle sustainability challenges  
enables NVIDIA to increase our operational 
effectiveness, attract and retain top talent, manage  
our risk, and bring greater long-term value to 
customers, investors, and other stakeholders.
As we reflect on our progress this year, we also look 
ahead. We’ll continue to push the limits of what’s 
possible, because it’s embedded in our company’s 
DNA. In partnership with our customers, employees, 
suppliers, and investors, we will continue to do our part 
to create a better, more sustainable future.  
Sincerely,
Debora Shoquist  
EVP, Operations, NVIDIA
02
INTRODUCTIONNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20187
INTRODUCTION
ABOUT NVIDIA 
NVIDIA invented the GPU, unleashing a world-
changing technology that redefined modern 
computer graphics and revolutionized parallel 
computing. The computational power of the 
GPU enabled an era of deep learning, which 
ignited modern artificial intelligence (AI). Today, 
our technologies underpin the world’s fastest 
supercomputers and make it possible for robots 
and autonomous vehicles to perceive and 
understand the world.
We continue to seek breakthroughs in technology 
that positively impact society, demand our 
specialized capabilities, and are so challenging 
that only NVIDIA can solve them. We are passionate 
about facilitating discoveries that open new 
universes and transform lives. To achieve this, 
our goal is to attract, develop, and retain a diverse 
workforce and create an environment where 
incredibly talented and creative people can do  
their life’s work.
Founded in 1993, NVIDIA is headquartered in 
Silicon Valley, Calif., and has more than 40 offices 
around the world. As of January 28, 2018, we had 
11,528 employees and continue to attract some 
of the best minds in the industry. Our employees’ 
drive fuels our work. HONORS
DOW JONES  
SUSTAINABILITY INDEX
NVIDIA is a member
FORBES MAGAZINE 
JUST 100 List of America’s  
Best Corporate Citizens
MIT TECH REVIEW 
50 Smartest Companies
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH  
Corporate Equality Index
HARVARD BUSINESS 
Named our CEO, Jensen Huang, as one 
of the world’s 10 best performing CEOsNVIDIA HAS RECENTLY 
BEEN RECOGNIZED IN 
SUCH LISTS AS:
FAST COMPANY
Most Innovative Companies
FORTUNE 
100 Best Companies to Work For
World’s Most Admired Companies
Named our CEO, Jensen Huang, as  
Fortune’s Businessperson of the  
Year in 2017
COMMUNITY  
ENGAGEMENT
$4.4 MILLION
in charitable giving for FY2018
9,000+
volunteer hours
72,000+
youth reachedNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20188INTRODUCTION  ABOUT NVIDIA
NVIDIA GeForce GTX
NVIDIA GeForce GTX, our GPU brand for PC gamers, is the 
world’s largest gaming platform, with 200 million users. 
NVIDIA DRIVE
NVIDIA DRIVE is a scalable AI car platform that spans 
the entire range of autonomous driving, from traffic-jam 
pilots to robotaxis. More than 370 companies have adopted 
NVIDIA DRIVE to develop AI systems that enable cars to 
see, learn, adapt, and improve, paving the way toward 
self-driving cars. 
NVIDIA SHIELD Android TV
NVIDIA SHIELD Android TV changes the way people enjoy 
entertainment at home, delivering video, music, apps, and 
amazing games in 4K. 
NVIDIA GeForce NOW
NVIDIA GeForce NOW is a game-streaming service that 
turns Macs into virtual GeForce gaming machines and allows 
gamers to connect their SHIELD devices to a GeForce-powered 
supercomputer in the cloud. 
NVIDIA Jetson
NVIDIA Jetson brings deep learning and AI to the world 
of robots, drones, and other edge devices, enabling 
autonomous machines to process complex data and  
learn on their own. NVIDIA PRODUCTS
NVIDIA Quadro
NVIDIA Quadro is the preeminent platform for professional 
artists involved in everything from industrial design to 
advanced special effects. 
NVIDIA GRID
NVIDIA GRID virtualized graphics technology provides 
enterprise workers who use design tools the flexibility, 
security, and efficiency of the cloud, and a user experience 
that’s nearly indistinguishable from a native PC.
NVIDIA Tesla
NVIDIA Tesla is a GPU-accelerated computing platform 
that provides parallel processing capabilities to scientists 
and researchers to do groundbreaking work in areas as 
diverse as earthquake research and cancer detection. 
Tesla GPUs have been broadly adopted in deep learning, 
a branch of AI in which machines are trained to recognize 
images, text, and speech across a variety of applications. 
We focus on large growth markets where our specialty is greatly valued: gaming, professional visualization, datacenter, and 
automotive. For each market, we offer a tightly integrated platform of processors, software, algorithms, system architecture,  
and services, including:  NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20189
INTRODUCTION
GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS
NVIDIA and its board of directors are committed 
to operating under sound principles of corporate 
governance and upholding the highest ethical 
standards. 
GOVERNANCE
Our charters, codes of conduct, and policies define 
our corporate governance, promote the interests 
of our stockholders, and establish common 
expectations within our company.
We have 11 directors on our board and three 
board committees: Audit, Compensation, and 
Nominating and Corporate Governance. As of 
April 2018, 10 of our 11 directors (91 percent) are 
independent, as determined by Nasdaq rules 
on director independence, which exceeds the 
majority threshold required by Nasdaq. The sole 
exception is Jensen Huang, our founder, president 
and chief executive officer. Our bylaws and 
corporate governance policies permit the roles of 
chairperson of the board and CEO to be filled by 
the same or different individuals, which gives the 
board flexibility in determining what is best for the 
company. At this time, NVIDIA has a lead director, 
Mark Perry, rather than a chairperson of the board.
In FY18, all directors attended at least 75 percent 
of board and committee meetings on which they 
served, with the exception of William J. Miller, 
whose attendance fell below 75% due to illness 
and who passed away in December 2017.  
Our corporate governance practices are rated 
by external organizations, such as Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS). According to ISS, as of 
April 2018, NVIDIA’s overall Governance QualityScore 
was 4, based on the following components: Audit & 
Risk Oversight 1, Board Structure 6, Compensation 
1, Shareholder Rights 7. These scores indicate decile 
rankings relative to a particular index or region 
determined by ISS. A decile score of 1 indicates lower 
governance risk and a score of 10 indicates higher 
governance risk. Our ISS Environmental & Social 
QualityScores are both 1. 
Executive Compensation
Our compensation program is designed to pay 
for performance and to attract, motivate, and 
retain a high-caliber executive team. A significant 
portion of executive compensation is based on 
our corporate performance. We administer our compensation program using a rigorous process 
that includes emphasizing at-risk, performance-
based compensation, reevaluating and adjusting 
our program annually based on stockholder 
feedback, reviewing peer group practices, and 
seeking advice from an independent compensation 
consultant (reporting directly to the Compensation 
Committee, not to the company).
NVIDIA’s compensation recovery policy states 
that if we are required to prepare an accounting 
restatement to correct an accounting error on an 
interim or annual financial statement included in a 
report on Form 10-Q or Form 10-K due to material 
noncompliance with any financial reporting 
requirement under the federal securities laws, and 
the board or a committee of independent directors 
concludes that our CEO or CFO received a variable 
compensation payment that would not have been 
payable if the original interim or annual financial 
statements had reflected the restatement, our CEO 
or CFO, as applicable, shall disgorge to NVIDIA the 
net after-tax amount of such overpayment. 
To learn more about our executive compensation 
practices, please see our proxy materials .
Internal Control
NVIDIA’s Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance Group is 
responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the 
company’s disclosure controls and procedures, 
and internal control over financial reporting. 
Based on their evaluation as of January 28, 
2018, our management has concluded that our 
disclosure controls and procedures were effective 
in providing reasonable assurance and that our 
internal control over financial reporting was 
effective. For more information, please visit our 
FY18 10-K, Item 9A .GOVERNANCE  
SNAPSHOT
10
of our 11 board 
members  
are independent
DECLASSIFIED 
BOARD  
STRUCTURE
and all board members  
serve one-year terms
INDEPENDENT  
DIRECTORS
compose our board’s 
audit, compensation, 
and nominating and 
corporate governance 
committees
MAJORITY VOTE
practices have been 
adopted voluntarily
SUCCESSION  
PLANNING
for the position of Chief 
Executive  
Officer is in place
ANNUAL  
PERFORMANCE  
EVALUATION
of board and board 
committees
PUBLIC  
DISCLOSURE OF
 ›director nomination 
process
 ›proxy access
 ›approach to board 
diversity
20%
of our independent 
board members  
are female 
27%
of our board members 
are minorities 
Watch five long-time  NVIDIANs talk about the company's core 
values and why they are important to us. NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201810INTRODUCTION  GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS
ETHICS
We believe that the integrity with which we conduct 
ourselves as individuals and as an organization is 
key to our ability to running a successful, innovative 
business and maintaining our reputation. We expect 
our executive officers, directors, and employees  
to conduct themselves with the highest degree  
of integrity, ethics, and honesty. 
Our Code of Conduct applies to all our executive 
officers, directors, and employees. In addition, 
we have established a Financial Team Code 
of Conduct that applies to our executive staff, 
directors, and members of our finance, accounting, 
tax, and treasury departments. Both documents 
can be found in the Investor Relations  section of 
our website under Governance . If we make any 
amendments to either code, or grant any waiver 
from a provision of either code to any executive 
officer or director, we will promptly disclose the 
nature of the amendment or waiver on our website.
Our codes do not permit engaging in transactions 
or activities that are a conflict of interest. We have 
internally posted conflict of interest guidelines, 
and a process for working with employees who 
wish to engage in outside activities. And when 
entering purchase requisitions, employees must 
certify that they don’t have a conflict of interest.  
To better protect the company and our 
stockholders, we regularly review our codes  
and related policies to ensure that they provide 
clear guidance to our directors, executives,  
and employees.
Our corporate hotline, which is hosted by an 
independent third party, allows any employee to 
confidentially and anonymously lodge a complaint 
about any accounting, internal control, auditing, 
code of conduct, or other matter of concern (unless 
prohibited by local privacy laws for employees 
located in the European Union). Using an external 
organization to host the hotline enhances our 
employees’ comfort level with anonymous 
reporting. Employees are encouraged to report 
suspected conflicts of interest to their manager 
or human resources representative or through 
the hotline. We have a strict “no retaliation” policy 
regarding reports of activities that run counter to 
our ethical expectations.If an employee is found to have violated either the 
Code of Conduct or the Financial Team Code of 
Conduct, we take appropriate actions up to and 
including termination of employment.  
All NVIDIA employees receive ethics and 
sexual harassment training. Our goal is for all 
employees globally to receive our Code of Conduct 
training, which covers environmental and social 
responsibility issues, within 30 days of starting 
with the company. As of March 2018, nearly 92 
percent of employees had completed this training. 
And ninety-six percent of employees who have 
frequent contact with customers, partners, and 
suppliers (such as those in sales, finance, and 
procurement) have completed additional global 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption training.
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201811
INTRODUCTION
CULTURE, CODE, AND VALUES
For 25 years, we have pushed the boundaries of 
what’s possible in the world of parallel computing, 
and we have succeeded because we are focused and 
passionate about what we do. We are committed to 
technology leadership and strive to operate at the 
highest levels of achievement. We aspire to remain 
nimble and willing to reinvent ourselves so that we 
can continue to create exciting new capabilities for 
our customers.
Our regular employee survey tells us that our 
employees feel great pride in the company — 90 
percent recommend NVIDIA as a great place to 
work and 96 percent believe that our products 
are making a positive impact in the world. Our 
corporate culture arises from five core values, 
which provide the foundation for success. These 
values create workplaces where innovation thrives 
and mistakes are transformed into opportunities. OUR CODE 
We believe that high performance must be grounded 
in integrity, and so our professional relationships 
are guided by a set of standards we call Our Code 
of Conduct . These principles govern how we act 
toward customers, competitors, partners, vendors, 
government regulators, stockholders, fellow 
employees, and the larger community. NVIDIA'S CORE VALUES
EXCELLENCE &  
DETERMINATION 
Maintain the highest 
standards.
We hire extraordinarily 
talented individuals across 
the globe, people determined 
to make a difference. We 
challenge ourselves to do 
our best work. We measure 
ourselves not against the 
competition, but against 
perfection—we call it the 
speed-of-light test. We are 
not deterred by lengthy 
endeavors if they are worthy. 
We are playing a long game.INTELLECTUAL 
HONESTY 
Seek truth, learn from 
mistakes, share learnings.   
We operate at the highest 
ethical standards. We seek 
to accurately know ourselves 
and our capabilities—
acknowledging our 
weaknesses and learning 
from our mistakes. The 
sharpest understanding of 
reality improves our work. 
Identifying the origins of 
mistakes is not about blame. 
It is essential to learning and 
constant improvement. We 
say what we believe, and have 
the courage to act on it.SPEED & AGILITY  
 
Learn, adapt, shape  
the world.
We are alert and constantly 
learning, and adjust course 
to align to new realities. This 
lets us create groundbreaking 
products at astonishing 
speed. No politics, no 
hierarchy stands in the  
way of inventing the future.INNOVATION  
 
Dream big, start small. 
Take risks, learn fast. 
We make things that delight 
customers and raise industry 
standards. We encourage 
employees to innovate, 
guided by first principles, not 
consensus. We know our path 
to discovery will be paved 
with mistakes. We anticipate 
and avoid the ones we can. 
We accept, learn from, and 
share the ones that occur. 
This allows us to invent things 
the world doesn’t even know it 
needs, and by doing so, invent 
the future. ONE TEAM  
 
Do what’s best for  
the company. 
We foster an environment of 
transparency, openness, and 
sharing information. One that 
motivates our employees, 
and empowers them to work 
as a single integrated team. 
We disagree openly and 
directly because conflict 
is essential to resolving 
differences, improving ideas, 
and achieving alignment. Our 
focus is on substance, not on 
style. By putting the interests 
of the company before our 
own, we can more easily 
accomplish NVIDIA’s vision.NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201812
INTRODUCTION
CSR SNAPSHOT
$9.7 
BILLION IN REVENUE
(up 41% from a year ago)11,528  
EMPLOYEES
90% 96%
5.1%
38.5 27,600 87%
74%
of our HQ waste was diverted from landfills
13
years ISO14001 certified
13%
decrease in greenhouse gas emissions  
per headcount, compared to FY14 baseline  
(target: 15% reduction by FY20)$4.4 MILLION
in charitable giving
65%
of offices engaged in giving activities9,000+
hours volunteered by employees
72,000+
youth reached through our programs100% 
response rate of suppliers for  
Conflict Minerals Reporting Template 
93%
RMAP-compliant smeltersENVIRONMENT COMMUNITYWORKFORCE AND EMPLOYEES
believe that our products are making 
a positive impact in the world
voluntary turnover rate (versus  
the industry average of 9.7%)
intern applications, nearly 
1,000 positions filledaverage age of NVIDIA employeesbelieve that diverse perspectives  
are valuedof employees recommend NVIDIA  
as a great place to work45,000 100%
rating on the Human Rights Watch 
Corporate Equality Indexcandidates from underrepresented 
groups reached
8.5%
female leaders18.6%
females globally
20.0%
female outside directors13.3%
females in  
technical roles16.1%
female managersGENDER STATISTICSINCLUSION
SUPPLY CHAINNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201813
INTRODUCTION
AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
This is a partial list providing only highlights.Most Innovative Companies  
in AI/Machine Learning  
Fast Company
100 Best Companies 
to Work For  
Fortune
Best Places to Work  
for LGBT Equality  
Human Rights CampaignWorld’s Best Performing CEOs  
Harvard Business Review
100 Best Corporate Citizens  
CRO Magazine
Businessperson  
of the Year  
Fortune
Best Workplaces for 
Giving Back  
Fortune
2018 Best Places to Work: 
Employee’s Choice  
Glassdoor
100 Most Sustainable 
Corporations in the World  
Global 100
NVIDIA DRIVE PX 2 AI Car Computer 
PACE Award
03
OUR  
PRIORITIESNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201815
OUR PRIORITIES
PRIORITY OVERVIEW
To understand the issues that mean the most to 
NVIDIA and our internal and external stakeholders, 
each year we use a multi-level process to seek 
their input. To inform our reporting objectives, 
we evaluate the issues our stakeholders tell us 
are most important to them, separately assess 
our CSR priorities, and combine the results on 
a matrix. We annually execute several initiatives 
related to our priorities, each of which provides 
varying levels of return, according to the business 
goals assigned to it.
In determining our priorities and the content for this 
report, we apply the four core principles set forth in 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. We 
also participate in external stakeholder efforts — 
such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, various 
“best place to work” ratings, and employee surveys 
— to keep our stakeholders engaged, demonstrate 
progress, and receive constructive feedback.
The NVIDIA board of directors is informed about our 
corporate responsibility priorities on an annual basis, 
and the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee has oversight of our CSR efforts. ASSESSING STAKEHOLDER 
PRIORITIES
In FY18, we updated the stakeholder analysis by 
reviewing external source documents, including: 
 ›Competitors’ reports
 ›Customer contracts/guidelines
 ›Disclosures such as the GRI standards
 ›Industry and trade association research  
and forecasts
 ›Investor queries and analyses
 ›Ratings and rankings questionnaires
 ›Regulatory requirements
 ›Trade organization codes of conduct
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201816
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEASSESSING COMPANY 
PRIORITIES
To arrive at our internal priorities and ensure that 
our leadership’s views are reflected in the analysis, 
we conduct individual interviews with our executive 
staff. We also evaluate the risk factors identified in 
enterprise risk discussions with NVIDIA executives 
and reports filed with the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission. 
The chart below represents issues important to 
NVIDIA, ranked according to their prevalence in 
company documentation, the relevance accorded to 
them during structured executive interviews, and the 
extent and urgency of potential associated impacts. MAPPING COMBINED 
PRIORITIES
We mapped the results of these analyses on a 
matrix to highlight the most important issues 
from the perspective of our internal and external 
stakeholders. The matrix includes the entire list  
of issues considered for inclusion in the analysis.
The issues with the highest priority are shown  
in the top right quadrant (shaded triangle):
Competitiveness
HIGH LOW IMPACT ON COMPANYHIGH LOW STAKEHOLDER CONCERNEnergy
Materials Availability
WasteWater
Employee H&SSupplier Working ConditionsSupply Chain Mgmt & Product Quality
ComplianceCybersecurity
Customer Relations
Anti-corruptionTalent Strategy
Diversity and Inclusion
Community Engagement
Supplier
Enviro Mgmt
Recycling & E-wasteFacilities ManagementEnviro Impact of Products
Societal Impacts of AIBusiness Continuity
Employee EngagementPublic Policy Engagement
Brand & ReputationCorporate GovernanceEthical Conduct
Transparency
Product SafetyInnovation
GHG Emissions & Climate Change
Transport & LogisticsOUR PRIORITIES PRIORITIES OVERVIEWNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201817
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEBased on the findings from our FY19 priorities 
assessment, the update resulted in the following 
changes from the prior year:
 ›We prioritized Cybersecurity in response to 
our need to increase protection of networks, 
computers, programs, and data from attack, 
damage, or unauthorized access and to 
implement product safeguards.
 ›We also added Brand & Reputation and Societal 
Impact of AI, in light of our increased focus in 
these areas.
 ›Customer Relations and Cybersecurity 
issues increased in stakeholder priority. 
Business Continuity, Competitiveness, 
Facilities Management, Materials Availability, 
Transparency, and Transport & Logistics issues 
increased among internal stakeholders.
 ›Supply Chain Management has been a priority 
issue for several years. This year, we combined 
Supply Chain Management and Product Quality to 
reflect the critical importance of Product Quality 
to the company’s CSR.
ISSUE DESCRIPTION
Cybersecurity Technologies, processes, and practices designed to 
protect networks, computers, programs, and data 
from attack, damage, or unauthorized access.
Innovation Innovation of new products, technology, and 
operational practices; enabling innovation through 
our support of developers who use NVIDIA 
products; intellectual property protection; research 
and development.
Supply Chain 
Management and 
Product QualityPolicies and practices regarding overall supply 
chain management and product quality, including 
auditing and ensuring that suppliers meet 
minimum standards or requirements; supply chain 
transparency and disclosure; supplier diversity.
Talent Strategy Global talent identification and selection, including 
global recruitment activities and hiring for specific 
skillsets; leadership development, including 
professional development and training to build and 
maintain an internal pipeline of leadership.OUR APPROACH TO PRIORITY ISSUES
Our FY19 priorities assessment resulted in the following four priority issues:OUR PRIORITIES PRIORITIES OVERVIEWNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201818OUR PRIORITIES PRIORITY ISSUES
Cybersecurity
A priority issue for NVIDIA, employees, shareholders, and customers
Cybersecurity at NVIDIA is defined as the 
technologies, processes, and practices designed 
to protect networks, computers, programs, and 
data from attack, damage, or unauthorized access. 
Included within the scope are NVIDIA’s products and 
the privacy of our customers’ and employees’ data. As 
more high-profile breaches occur and new dangers 
continually come to the surface, NVIDIA remains 
committed to respecting privacy and implementing 
appropriate protections for any personal information 
we collect or that our users share with us. 
 
Our efforts are managed by a global team of 
cybersecurity, IT, engineering, and legal experts. A 
cybersecurity committee, which meets monthly and 
is driven by executives, reviews metrics and evaluates 
emerging threats. We also address cybersecurity 
scenarios in our resilience planning and document 
them through business continuity plans, and follow the 
processes outlined in frameworks such as the ISO27000 
for Information Security Standards. In the backdrop of 
constant changes and learnings in this space, we are 
continually evaluating and adapting our security measures. 
In the event of a cybersecurity issue, we have a defined 
set of actions for teams to initiate to determine the type 
and severity of response. The team also leverages 
external parties, such as computer security firms 
and those with risk management and governance 
expertise. NVIDIA’s board of directors receives regular 
presentations on cybersecurity. In FY19, the company 
will increase its focus on data privacy and protection, 
specifically the handling and use of personal data, and 
the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or 
delete such data about themselves.Innovation
A priority issue for NVIDIA, shareholders, customers, and employees
The drive to innovate is embedded in our DNA.  
Our invention of the GPU defined modern computer 
graphics and established NVIDIA as the leader 
in visual computing.  With our subsequent 
introduction of the Compute Unified Device 
Architecture, or CUDA, programming model, we 
opened the parallel processing capabilities of 
the GPU for general purpose computing. We have 
extended our research and development emphasis 
in recent years to the revolutionary field of AI. 
About 19 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2018 
($1.8 billion) funded research and development 
activities. In total, we have invested more than $15 
billion in these efforts since our inception, yielding 
inventions that are essential to modern computing.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together 
hardware, system software, programmable 
algorithms, libraries, systems, and services to 
create unique value for the markets we serve. 
While the requirements of these end markets are 
diverse, we address them with a unified underlying 
architecture leveraging our GPUs and CUDA as the 
fundamental building blocks. The programmable 
nature of our architecture allows us to support 
several multi-billion dollar end markets with the 
same underlying technology by using a variety of 
software stacks developed either internally or by 
third party developers and partners. We specialize 
in markets in which GPU-based visual computing 
and accelerated computing platforms can provide 
tremendous throughput for applications.
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201819
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOur two reportable segments — GPU and Tegra 
Processor — are based on a single underlying 
graphics architecture. From our proprietary 
processors, we have created specialized 
platforms that address four large markets where 
our expertise is critical: Gaming, Professional 
Visualization, Datacenter, and Automotive.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized 
markets, including GeForce for gamers; Quadro 
for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists 
and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-
based visual computing users. Our Tegra brand 
integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, 
and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to 
drive supercomputing for mobile gaming and 
entertainment devices, autonomous robots, 
drones, and cars.
We continuously assess whether and where to 
seek formal protection for particular innovations 
and technologies, based on such factors as:
 ›The commercial significance of our operations 
and our competitors’ operations in particular 
countries and regions;
 ›The location in which our products are 
manufactured;
 ›Our strategic technology or product directions  
in different countries; and 
 ›The degree to which intellectual property  
laws exist and are meaningfully enforced  
in various jurisdictions.  
 
 Supply Chain Management and  
Product Quality
A priority issue for NVIDIA, customers, and  
nongovernmental organizations
We do not directly manufacture the semiconductor 
wafers or printed circuit boards used in our 
products, nor do we manufacture the company’s 
branded devices. We partner with world-class 
suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing 
process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, 
testing, and packaging. We also contract with 
manufacturers to build, test, and distribute our 
branded devices. We closely manage our supply 
chain to continue delivering innovative products in  
a socially and environmentally conscious manner.
Product quality is one of our top priorities. To 
ensure that we meet or exceed customer quality 
expectations, we assess our performance among our 
product families through indicators that measure 
customer DPPM levels (defective parts per million). 
We are ISO9001 certified and have been issued 
a “letter of conformance” to the ISO/TS 16949 
automotive quality standard.
Internally, we manage product quality issues 
through a cross-functional team approach. To verify 
a failure, our approach begins by directly engaging 
the customer via customer quality engineering and 
customer program management. Once a failure 
is verified, we address the issue using the Eight-
Discipline (8D) problem solving methodology. 
 
 OUR PRIORITIES PRIORITY ISSUES
In FY18, NVIDIA was 
recognized as 
No. 1 
in MIT Tech 
Review’s 50 
Smartest 
Companies
for our leading role 
in the AI revolution.
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201820
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOUR PRIORITIES PRIORITY ISSUES
We drive several of our supply chain initiatives 
through participation in the Responsible Business 
Alliance  (RBA) (formerly the Electronic Industry 
Citizenship Coalition, or EICC) since 2007 and as  
a Full member strive to go beyond compliance. 
We have adopted the RBA Code of Conduct and 
integrated its elements into our program, including 
auditing critical suppliers and conducting internal 
assessments to ensure that we address all 
aspects of responsible supply chain management. 
We also comply with the RBA’s guidance regarding 
stakeholder grievances related to our social or 
environmental performance. 
In Supplier Responsibility, we cover in detail 
several areas material to NVIDIA and our 
performance. These include safe working 
practices, auditing, carbon footprint, and conflict 
minerals. We also participate in organizations 
focused on issues relevant to Supplier 
Responsibility, such as the Public-Private 
Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade  and the 
Association Connecting Electronics Industries .  
Talent Strategy Management
A priority issue for NVIDIA, employees, and shareholders
We believe that talented employees are our 
greatest assets, and they play a key role in creating 
long-term value for our stakeholders. Ultimately, 
NVIDIA’s success and our ability to compete are 
substantially dependent on how well we identify, 
hire, train, and retain highly qualified key personnel. 
In the technology industry’s highly competitive 
talent market, we aim to differentiate ourselves 
through a workplace culture that celebrates 
individual drive, commitment, and achievement. 
We attract some of the technology industry’s 
most creative and gifted individuals, and they take 
pride in our dynamic environment. Our teams of 
world-class engineers and developers thrive in 
high-performance environments where passion is 
expected, talent is recognized, and collaboration 
is valued. To ensure their success, we continue to 
develop a workplace culture where our employees 
are engaged and inspired. As we enter new markets in AI and deep learning, 
the demand for talent is increasingly competitive. 
We continually evaluate the right mix of 
compensation and benefits to ensure that we can 
continue to attract the best and the brightest. 
To attract and retain highly qualified individuals, we:
 ›Attend professional and university recruiting events
 ›Perform bi-annual compensation analysis
 ›Evaluate benefits annually
 ›Leverage global employee engagement survey data
 ›Engage in “best place to work” surveys  
that provide feedback on our strengths  
and weaknesses
We are committed to a strong workplace culture that 
provides effective grievance mechanisms for our 
employees. To report practices or actions believed 
to be inappropriate or illegal, employees have 
several channels through which to report, including 
our human resources departments, a suggestion 
box, and a third-party anonymous service.
Information about how we recruit, acquire, and 
retain employees is found on the Workforce page  
of this report.NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201821
CHAPTER NAME
SECTION NAMEOUR PRIORITIES
UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
PRIORITY: INNOVATION
GOAL #3   Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
ISSUE TARGETS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL NVIDIA ACTION / INITIATIVES
3.3 By 2030, end the epidemics of AIDS, 
tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical 
diseases and combat hepatitis, water-borne 
diseases and other communicable diseases.AI-Powered Medical Research :  
AI is completely reshaping life sciences, 
medicine, and healthcare as an industry. 
To further that transformation, NVIDIA is 
democratizing deep learning by providing  
an end-to-end AI computing platform 
designed for the healthcare community. 
These GPU-accelerated solutions are 
helping to foster collaboration, while at 
the same time keeping each institution’s 
information secure.  
3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature 
mortality from non-communicable diseases 
through prevention and treatment and 
promote mental health and well-being.AI-Propelled Medical Imaging :  
NVIDIA’s Project Clara, a medical imaging 
supercomputer, renews the capabilities 
of the current installed base of medical 
imaging machines. Clara can run many 
computational instruments simultaneously, 
leverages NVIDIA’s virtual technology to 
enable multi-user access, and can perform 
the computation for any instrument, whether 
CT, MR, ultrasound, X-ray or mammography. 
NVIDIA is working with dozens of healthcare 
companies, startups and research hospitals 
to implement Clara. 
GOAL #11   Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
ISSUE TARGETS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL NVIDIA ACTION / INITIATIVES
11.2 By 2030, provide access to safe, affordable, 
accessible, and sustainable transport 
systems for all, improving road safety, 
notably by expanding public transport,  
with special attention to the needs of those 
in vulnerable situations, women, children, 
persons with disabilities and older persons.Revolutionizing the Future of Transportation : 
Self-driving cars will dramatically change 
the future of transportation – making driving 
safer, reducing carbon emissions, and 
transforming how cities are designed. At the 
heart of autonomous driving technology is 
artificial intelligence, which enables vehicles 
to learn to anticipate, and respond to, the 
huge range of fast-changing conditions  
on the road.
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), introduced by the United Nations in 2015, set forth an ambitious plan to put the world 
on a more prosperous and sustainable path. As such these goals present an opportunity for businesses to apply their creativity and 
innovation in service for the common good. In the following tables, we indicated how our activities support the SDGs.NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201822
CHAPTER NAME
SECTION NAMEOUR PRIORITIES
UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
PRIORITY: TALENT STRATEGY MANAGEMENT
GOAL #5   Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
ISSUE TARGETS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL NVIDIA ACTION / INITIATIVES
5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all 
women and girls everywhere.Advancing Unconscious Bias Awareness :  
Our FY18-19 focus is on team dynamics. 
Trained leaders helped us identify areas 
where we could remove the potential for 
unconscious bias across the employee 
experience. We are examining learning and 
development courses that cover meeting 
execution and collaboration to determine 
how to integrate bias-mitigating tactics.
5.b Enhance the use of enabling technology, in 
particular information and communications 
technology, to promote the empowerment  
of women.Accelerating Tech-Savvy Skills  
for Women in India :  
Since FY17, NVIDIA has partnered with local 
nonprofits to provide technology education 
and training to underserved girls and young 
women in communities near our three offices 
in India: Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune. 
The supported programs offer hands-on 
training and real-world applications in areas 
like coding, robotics, and digital media, 
and in software programs like Word, Excel 
and PowerPoint. These investments aim to 
empower young women with new technology 
skills and encourage them to pursue further 
STEM-related education and careers. 
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201823
CHAPTER NAME
SECTION NAMEOUR PRIORITIES
UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
PRIORITY: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
GOAL #8   Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and  
                   decent work for all
ISSUE TARGETS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL NVIDIA ACTION / INITIATIVES
8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe 
and secure working environments for all 
workers, including migrant workers, in 
particular women migrants, and those in 
precarious employment Committed to Supplier Responsibility : 
NVIDIA has been a member of the 
Responsible Business Alliance (formerly 
the EICC) since 2007 and is currently a 
Full member. We have integrated RBA risk 
assessment tools, auditing protocols, and 
educational resources into our supplier 
management practices, and our employees 
are deeply engaged in workgroups most 
relevant to our supply chain operations. We 
engage our suppliers regularly, develop 
Corrective Action Plans when necessary, 
and continue to monitor their performance 
throughout the year.
PRIORITY: CYBERSECURITY
GOAL #9   Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation
ISSUE TARGETS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL NVIDIA ACTION / INITIATIVES
9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the 
technological capabilities of industrial 
sectors in all countries, in particular 
developing countries, including, by 2030, 
encouraging innovation and substantially 
increasing the number of research and 
development workers per 1 million people 
and public and private research and 
development spending Investing in Cybersecurity :  
In the latest of a series of investments 
in deep learning startups, NVIDIA is 
investing in Deep Instinct, an Israeli-based 
startup that uses deep learning to thwart 
cyberattacks. Deep Instinct uses a GPU-
based neural network and CUDA to achieve 
99 percent detection rates, compared 
with about 80 percent detection from 
conventional cybersecurity software. Its 
software can automatically detect and defeat 
the most advanced cyberattacks.
To see other SDGs, please visit the Product Design section.04
OUR  
STAKEHOLDERSNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201825
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
NVIDIA defines stakeholders as entities or 
individuals who can be affected by NVIDIA and 
whose actions can affect the company. We engage 
with our diverse stakeholders in numerous ways, 
including tracking their requests so that we 
can identify and respond to their key concerns. 
This helps us continually hone our approach to 
corporate responsibility. 
Although NVIDIA does not have a formal 
stakeholder advisory panel for corporate 
responsibility issues, at least one member of the 
CSR Committee evaluates each stakeholder request 
to determine what type of response is appropriate. 
HOW WE ENGAGE
Below are examples of our key stakeholders and 
how we engage with them. 
Communities
When we enter new communities or begin facility 
construction, we interact with local governments to 
update community members on our progress and 
receive approval when needed. We are members 
of public policy organizations such as the Silicon 
Valley Leadership Group, Information Technology 
Industry Council, and Digital Europe. Through the 
NVIDIA Foundation, our philanthropic arm, we work 
closely with the communities where we have offices 
worldwide, as well as local governments.
Consumers
Our customer service team tracks interactions 
with consumers as they occur and shares bi-weekly 
satisfaction reports internally. We use our widely 
followed blog and social media channels, which 
reach 22 million individuals, to share stories about 
our CSR efforts.
Customers
Through the Responsible Business Alliance 
(formerly EICC), we make our self-assessment 
questionnaires available to customers, and we 
collaborate with them through various working 
groups. We also engage with customers directly 
during the year through quarterly business 
reviews and special initiatives, such as conflict 
minerals or CSR surveys.  Developers
We have established robust mechanisms for 
communicating with, and facilitating interaction 
among, developers through targeted discussion 
forums and our own global developer conferences. 
Developer resources include courses in parallel 
programming; enhancement tools for debugging, 
performance, and testing; access to highly 
skilled engineers and specialists who provide 
custom services and co-design industry-specific 
applications; and financial support to university 
researchers in various scientific disciplines. 
Employees and Prospective Employees
We conduct a global employee survey 
approximately every 18 months. The most recent 
survey was conducted in November FY18 and 
yielded a 95 percent response rate. 
In addition to using an online suggestion box, 
employees can contact our CEO or any executive 
staff member with questions or suggestions. 
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201826OUR STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We encourage employees to submit questions 
(anonymously, if they prefer) prior to our quarterly 
company meeting so that our CEO can respond 
onstage. Questions he doesn’t address are 
answered in written posts, which all employees 
can access.
We have established a third-party corporate 
hotline to allow any employee to confidentially 
and anonymously lodge a complaint about 
any accounting, internal control, auditing, or 
other matter of concern (unless prohibited by 
local privacy laws for employees located in the 
European Union).
We engage with prospective employees through a 
number of channels, including the Careers section 
of NVIDIA’s website and university, diversity, and 
professional recruiting events. We also have 
an employee referral program to encourage 
employees to recommend candidates to us
Nonprofit and Nongovernmental 
Organizations
We engage directly with charitable organizations 
through the ongoing work of the NVIDIA 
Foundation. We partner with NGOs through 
initiatives like the RBA and Public-Private  
Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade.Shareholders
Since 2007, we have participated in the CDP. We 
respond to individual shareholder requests as they 
arise, including through shareholder meetings, 
proxy statements, analyst days, and external 
shareholder events. 
Individual shareholders who wish to communicate 
with the board of directors regarding nominations 
of directors or other matters may do so by 
sending written communications to our Corporate 
Secretary, Timothy S. Teter. If no specific director 
is named, letters are forwarded (depending on the 
subject matter) to the chair of the Audit Committee, 
Compensation Committee, or Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee.
Suppliers
We engage with suppliers through quarterly 
business reviews and allocate points in their 
performance score for their efforts to participate 
in social and environmental initiatives. Through 
the RBA, we analyze their self-assessment 
documentation and request periodic audits. We 
actively reach out to suppliers for issues related  
to product compliance and conflict minerals.
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201827
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
STAKEHOLDER INTERACTIONS
Stakeholder interactions in FY18 included, but were not limited to: 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Employees/
Prospective 
EmployeesHeld discussions between our CEO and resource communities (African-Americans, Hispanics, women, 
veterans, and early career employees), which resulted in significant expansion of our parenting benefits to 
fund adoptions, in vitro fertilization, and egg freezing.
Reached 45,000 underrepresented candidates at university and professional recruiting events. 
Increased outreach to underrepresented candidates through an expanded presence at the Grace Hopper 
Conference and through sponsorships at Hispanic-serving institutions as well as colleges and universities 
with historically high attendance among African-Americans.
Customers Received regular compliance requests from customers.
Conducted an analysis of customer contracts to confirm that our priorities are aligned with their requirements. 
Worked directly with customers to report our supplier status related to conflict minerals. 
Responded to several customer surveys and maintained our Sony Green Partner certification for the 12th year. 
Shareholders Participated in the CDP for the eleventh year. Achieved a “B” for our investor, supply chain, and water 
scores.  
Presented CSR issues for the first time to our top shareholders during the company’s annual outreach meetings. 
Board of Directors Kept NVIDIA’s board of directors abreast of our corporate responsibility objectives and key priorities. 
In FY19, began reporting to the Nominating and Corporate Governance committee on corporate social 
responsibility.
NGOs Development International gave NVIDIA a score of 100 for compliance with the U.S. SEC’s conflict minerals 
rule. We also provided information to the Business & Human Rights Resource Center for inclusion in its 
Know the Chain ICT benchmark around human rights practices. The report  was released in FY19.  
Government Provided testimony  to U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on self-driving 
cars. Also, provided testimony  to House of Representatives Subcommittee on Information Technology on 
the need to increase funding and adopt AI to boost the nation’s economy. 
Added recycling  programs in states where mandated. 
Filed a Form SD to provide greater transparency around our efforts related to conflict minerals. 
Created a statement  in compliance with the U.K. Modern Slavery Act.  
Research/Ratings 
OrganizationsFeatured for a fourth year as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and remained on the 
FTSE4Good index, Global Equality Index, the 100 Best Corporate Citizens list, and Forbes’ JUST 100 
ranking. Debuted on the Global 100 ranking. Also featured again in RobecoSAM’s Sustainability Yearbook. 
Featured for the second year on Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to Work For list; our position is 30. 
Included with this recognition were several other Fortune awards: Best Workplaces for Giving Back, 50 
Best Workplaces for Parents, and 25 Best Workplaces in the Bay Area. Also featured on Bloomberg’s first 
Gender Diversity Index.
Interacted with 12 organizations interested in our corporate responsibility: CDP, Corporate Equality Index, 
Corporate Knights (for Global100, Newsweek), ECPI Indices, FTSE4Good, Harvard Business Review, IW 
Financial, MSCI, Oekom, RobecoSAM, and Vigeo. NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201828
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAME
DISTRIBUTING THIS REPORT
After publishing our CSR Report each year, we 
promote its availability through:
 ›Targeted employee communications
 ›Outreach to stakeholders and reporting 
organizations with which we have built a 
relationship
 ›Individual outreach to shareholder groups that 
make inquiries throughout the year
 ›Our social media channels, which reach more 
than 22 million individuals
We also distribute the report to our executive 
staff and to sales and marketing employees who 
interact directly with customers and partners.OUR STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER INTERACTIONS05
OUR  
OPERATIONSNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201830
DIVERSITY ENVIRONMENTEach year, we take a close look at how we are 
approaching our priority issues throughout the 
enterprise. This helps us understand the risks and 
opportunities associated with key activities and the 
related impact on our stakeholders. 
We begin with a strong operational foundation 
and build value throughout the processes of 
product design, development, manufacturing, 
distribution, and delivery. Our value, as illustrated 
below, extends well beyond our operations to 
the social impact our products have in people’s 
daily lives and the many ways we give back to our 
communities through our commitment to higher 
education and charitable giving. 
In this section, we report on the relevant policies, 
activities, accomplishments, and recognition in 
each of these links in our value chain.
WORKFORCE
Our day-to-day business is inventing the future. 
Our worldwide enterprise is large enough to  
tackle projects of enormous scale, but small 
enough so that each employee can make a 
difference. As a result, we contribute to solving 
some of the world’s most stimulating technology 
problems in industries ranging from gaming to 
scientific exploration.
We’ve been able to accomplish this by cultivating 
a culture that celebrates individual drive, 
commitment, and achievement, and allows 
talented individuals to do their life’s work. Fortune 
has recognized NVIDIA in its list of 100 Best 
Companies to Work For. We’re also on MIT Tech 
Review’s 50 Smartest Companies list and Human 
Rights Watch’s Corporate Equality Index. And we 
were included in Glassdoor’s Employee’s Choice: 
Best Places to Work . 
Our employees give us a competitive advantage, 
and we value them accordingly. We recruit 
and retain the best, actively promote diversity, 
offer competitive compensation, recognize 
performance, incubate potential through 
internships and university partnerships, 
and support our workforce with outstanding 
opportunities and benefits. 
See Workforce and Diversity metrics for the 
detailed measures we use to track our success. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
We integrate diversity and inclusion into the entire 
employee experience. In our most recent global 
survey, 89 percent of NVIDIA employees believe 
we’ve created an environment where people of 
diverse backgrounds can succeed, and 87 percent 
affirmed that their teams value diverse perspectives.
We are committed to pay transparency and 
making all employment decisions on the principles 
of equal employment opportunity. We do not 
discriminate against any employee or applicant for 
employment on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex (including pregnancy), marital or protected 
veteran status, age, national origin, ancestry, 
physical or mental disability, genetic information, 
medical condition (genetic characteristics, cancer, 
or a record or history of cancer), sexual orientation, 
gender, gender identity, gender expression, or 
any other characteristic protected by law. See our 
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy . 
To attract, develop, and retain a diverse workforce and 
create an inclusive culture, we focus on three areas: 
Recruiting and Hiring, Recognition and Development, 
and Employee Support. Some of the efforts we’ve 
advanced in these areas over the last few years include:OUR OPERATIONS
OVERVIEW
BUILDING VALUE THROUGHOUT OUR ENTERPRISE
WORKFORCE
PRODUCT DESIGNNVIDIA OPERATIONSGOVERANCE AND ETHICS
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SOCIAL IMPACTSUPPLY CHAIN
PRODUCT DELIVERY
NVIDIA was recognized  
in FY18 on   
Fortune’s 100 Best 
Companies to Work For list.
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201831
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOUR OPERATIONS  WORKFORCE AND INCLUSION
OBJECTIVE: RECRUIT WOMEN AND UNDERREPRESENTED MINORITIES.
Recruiting and Hiring Targeted recruitment of women and minorities through:
 ›Partnering with historically black colleges and Hispanic-serving institutions. 
 ›Attendance at campus recruiting fairs run by organizations such as the Society of Women Engineers, 
oSTEM, National Society of Black Engineers, and Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers.
 ›Offering free passes to women’s groups at local universities for our annual developers conference.
 ›Our presence at diversity tech conferences such as Grace Hopper, Society of Women Engineers, Vets in 
Tech, Tech Inclusion, Lesbians Who Tech, and the National Society of Black Engineers.
 ›Posting job openings and doing skills translation for several NVIDIA openings on military.com.
 ›Participation in career fairs and events, where we reached nearly 45,000 diverse technologists in FY18. 
 ›Developing women and minority recruiting teams for academic and professional job fairs.
 ›Mentoring undergraduate women pursuing tech degrees through Rewriting the Code, and sponsoring a 
female scholar through Advancing Science in America.  
Tools to improve hiring practices:
 ›Crafting job descriptions to eliminate unintended bias using a third-party artificial intelligence (AI)-based tool.
 ›Engaging diverse employees for recruiting events and interview panels, and ensuring that technical 
women interviewees meet with at least one technical woman during the interview process.
 ›Training our recruiting team on unconscious bias mitigation practices and empowering them to provide 
guidance to hiring managers.
 ›Providing online resources for hiring managers around unconscious bias awareness.
OBJECTIVE: RECOGNIZE & CELEBRATE THE WORK OF DIVERSE EMPLOYEES, ENSURE LIFELONG LEARNING.
Recognition and 
DevelopmentTo ensure pay parity, since FY16 we’ve used a third-party firm to analyze our pay practices annually for 
gender and diversity across 75+ dimensions – including rating, education, years of experience, job function, 
family, and level. The firm has not found any statistically significant disparities related to male and female 
compensation. If an issue is identified, our human resources organization takes corrective action as needed.
Strengthened development programs for women through mentoring, technical offerings, and on-the-job 
training. In FY17, we piloted peer-to-peer mentoring with 100 technical female employees in Santa Clara, 
and plan to expand it to other employee resource groups in FY19. Our women in tech resource group offers 
regular tours of our demo room, and hosts quarterly events that cover advances in AI and special skills 
development such as networking and social media.
Feature diverse employees on NVIDIA.com and our corporate intranet. 
Bring female executives to campus to speak about their careers, including NVIDIA Board members Dawn 
Hudson, most recently Chief Marketing Officer of the National Football League, and Persis Drell, Provost 
of Stanford University.
Submit top-performing employees for recognition and awards. Our CFO, Colette Kress, was recognized in 
FY18 by the National Diversity Council as one of the 50 Most Powerful Women in Technology. And the YWCA 
Silicon Valley has recognized 20 NVIDIA leaders in the past six years through its Tribute to Women awards. OUR OPERATIONS  WORKFORCE AND INCLUSIONNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201832
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAME
OUR OPERATIONS  WORKFORCE AND INCLUSION
OBJECTIVE: CREATE AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE EMPLOYEES CAN DO THEIR BEST WORK.
Employee Support Launched a generous parental leave program (shaped by our women’s employee resource group)  
with flexible work hours upon return from leave. 
Expanded coverage for additional parental benefits, such as in vitro fertilization, egg freezing,  
and adoption. 
Conducted training with 300+ leaders to build their awareness about unconscious bias in recruiting  
and hiring. 
Supported the establishment of and provided funding to employee resource groups that have Estaff-
level sponsorship and dedicated budgets: Women in Technology, NV Pride (LGBTQ employees and allies), 
Black NVIDIAN Network, Early Career Network, and Hispanic Latino Network. Our CEO meets with the 
co-chairs of these groups quarterly to understand their experience and drive programs and benefits that 
support these communities.
Expanded Women in Technology programs beyond our headquarters to Austin and St. Louis and, in  
FY19, to India. 
See the Performance  section of this report for our FY19 inclusion goals. Hiring  ›Setting internal goals to increase our hiring of women and minorities
 ›Striving to ensure that our recruiting, screening, and interview pipeline reflects the industry’s  
minority representation
Retention  ›Reviewing and analyzing compensation and performance biannually 
 ›Tracking employee-survey metrics, focusing on how women and minorities view NVIDIA’s work environment
Promotions
and Turnover ›Monitoring the number of promotions and turnover within minority groups against the total The metrics we use to track our progress include:NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201833RECRUITING AND HIRING
We have increased the hiring of underrepresented 
minorities and will continue to focus on these efforts. 
We track gender representation data across 
multiple areas:
 ›Our workforce is close to 19 percent female, up 
from 16.5 percent three years ago.
 ›Turnover for women has remained equal to that 
of men for the past four years. 
 ›40 percent of executive officers are female.
 ›20 percent of executive staff is female, up from  
8 percent three years ago. 
Learn more about all of our recruiting activities  
in this NVIDIA blog post . 
Metrics related to diversity can be found in  
Our Performance.OUR OPERATIONS  WORKFORCE AND INCLUSION
SNAPSHOT OF UNDERREPRESENTED  
MINORITY EMPLOYEES
Women (Global)
FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15
18.61% 18.42% 17.5% 16.53%
African American (US)
FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15
1.04% 1.06% 0.98% 0.87%
Hispanic (US)
FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15
3.31% 3.35% 3.48% 2.98%NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201834
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOUR OPERATIONS  WORKFORCE AND INCLUSION
COMPENSATION AND 
BENEFITS
We have four key objectives in our compensation 
strategy: attract and retain the world’s best talent, 
reward performance, focus on growth, and think 
in terms of total pay. Our total compensation 
packages are competitive, fair, and structured  
to encourage employees to invest in the  
company’s future. 
Our employees enjoy a comprehensive, market-
competitive benefits package (see NVIDIA benefits  
for more information). All employees have the 
opportunity to be shareholders in the company 
through our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). 
Over the past year, nearly 95 percent of eligible 
employees participated in our ESPP.
We invest in and commit to our employees’ long-
term success. NVIDIA’s benefits include flexible 
work hours and flexible time off, programs to help 
employees address stress and time-management 
challenges, and an array of convenient onsite 
services. We support employees in their important 
life events through our global Guidance Resources 
Program and a generous leave program. 
In late FY16, we significantly increased our 
parental leave benefits, as shown in the graphic 
above. Birth mothers now receive 22 weeks of fully 
paid leave. Fathers and adoptive and foster parents 
receive 12 weeks of fully paid leave. New mothers 
and fathers are entitled to 8 weeks of flex time in 
addition to their leave, so they can work from home 
or during alternative hours. 1 week reduced pay
STUDENT LOAN 
REPAYMENT PROGRAM
We offer a student loan 
repayment program that 
allows employees to apply for 
reimbursement of up to $6,000 
each year, up to $30,000 total.
PARENTAL LEAVE PROGRAM
Old Policy New PolicyBirth Mother Policy
Baby Bonding Leave
FlextimePregnancy Leave6 weeks 100% pay 
6 weeks reduced pay 
6 weeks unpaid4 weeks reduced pay22 WEEKS
100%  
PAY
+ 8 WEEKS 
FLEXTIME
Father, Adoptive Parents, Foster Parents Policy
FlextimeBaby Bonding LeaveNew Policy
12 WEEKS
100%  
PAY
+ 8 WEEKS 
FLEXTIMEOld Policy
6 weeks 100% pay
5 weeks unpaid1 week reduced pay
Our efforts to improve benefits 
for our LGBT employees have 
brought us a 100 percent score 
three years in a row in the 
Corporate Equality Index .NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201835OUR OPERATIONS  WORKFORCE AND INCLUSION
LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT
Through our learning and development program, 
employees receive training on the job and in 
more formal settings. We use both internally 
and externally created training content, and our 
employees can access hundreds of technical 
and professional development courses via the 
“NVLearn” portal. Harvard ManageMentor,  
GlobeSmart , Udemy For Business , and courses 
from LearniT ! are available online for employees, 
as are the digital libraries of the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers  and the 
Association for Computing Machinery  through 
our corporate memberships. We offer tuition 
reimbursement at most accredited educational 
institutions — including Coursera  — and pay 
tuition to technical education programs at the 
Stanford Center for Professional Development.  
We also encourage employees to take classes 
through NVIDIA’s external Deep Learning  
Institute , an online platform where developers  
can take courses and workshops on the  
technical aspects of AI. 
MEASURING ENGAGEMENT 
AND RETENTION
Employee turnover continues to decrease at 
NVIDIA, even in this extremely competitive 
recruiting climate. Our total turnover rate fell to 
5.6 percent in FY18, well below the semiconductor 
industry average of 14.2 percent. Our voluntary 
turnover rate declined to 5.1 percent, versus a 9.7 
percent average for semiconductor companies. 
To track engagement and retention trends, we 
conduct a global employee survey every 18 
months, gathering feedback across 13  
dimensions, including strength of culture, 
engagement, satisfaction, vision and direction,  
and work-life integration. Participation is 95 
percent. Our last survey was in November 2017. 
Our employees rank us highly for our culture  
of innovation, vision and direction, and 
engagement. Areas of concern to employees 
include infrastructure, work-life flexibility, and 
survey utilization. Steps we’ve taken to help 
address these issues, which we’ll measure in 
future surveys, include: 
 ›Expanding our parental leave program and 
coverage of other parenting benefits.
 ›Building a 500,000-square-foot headquarters 
building to increase office and meeting space. ›Upgrading employee technology,  
network access, and telephony.
 ›Doubling the investment we made over the 
past four years in learning and development, 
including an aggressive rollout of new technical 
and professional learning content.
 ›Supporting executives with communications they 
can provide to their teams on the steps we’re 
taking to use survey feedback.
We encourage employees to volunteer in their 
local communities and contribute to global 
humanitarian causes. The NVIDIA Foundation 
surveys all employees annually to gather data 
about charitable and volunteer participation and 
to ensure that the Foundation is on the right track 
with its funding priorities. Sixty-five percent 
of our offices around the globe participated 
in at least one charitable activity in FY18, and 
employees raised three times more for charitable 
organizations than was raised in the prior year. 
See Charitable Giving  for more information.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
We’re honored to be included for a second year 
as a Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For 
(listed at No. 30, up from No. 39 the prior year). 
Other Fortune recognitions we’ve received 
include: 25 Best Workplaces in the Bay Area, 50 
Best Workplaces for Parents, Best Workplaces 
for Giving Back, and Best Workplaces in Texas. 
Several locally based publications have included 
us in their best places to work recognitions, and 
People Magazine featured us in 2017 as a PEOPLE 
Companies That Care. 
Our diversity and inclusion efforts have been 
recognized by leading organizations and media, 
among them: Forbes Best Employers for Diversity, 
Latino Leaders Magazine Best Employers for 
Hispanics, Comparably’s Best Companies for 
Women, and Fatherly.com’s 50 Best Places to 
Work for New Dads list. We’ve also received a 
Brilliance in Diversity Award from the National 
Diversity Council. For the third consecutive 
year, we earned a score of 100 on the Corporate 
Equality Index, which measures LGBTQ-friendly 
policies. And employees have recognized NVIDIA 
in Glassdoor’s Employees Choice: Highest Rated 
CEOs and Best Places to Work. NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201836INCLUSION IN OUR 
ECOSYSTEM
Building the Future STEM Pipeline
Improving the representation of women 
and minorities in tech requires a long-term 
perspective, so we’ve developed a plan to 
engage in STEM activities with girls and other 
unrepresented groups. We reach youth through 
technology donations, sponsorships, campus 
visits, guest speakers, and career roundtables. 
Since FY18, we've engaged several hundred 
girls and underrepresented youth through 
organizations such as: Girls Engaged in Math and 
Science (GEMS), Santa Clara University’s Summer 
Engineering Seminar Program, Iridescent’s 
Technovation Program, 49er STEM Leadership 
Institute, Third Street Community Center’s 
Young Engineers Program, Girls Who Code, and 
Baradene High School (New Zealand). We also 
engaged several hundred students from the 
Santa Clara Unified School District through our 
Techsplorer program.
Through the India Companies Act, we funded in 
FY17 and FY18 organizations in India that helped 
more than 2,000 young women from impoverished 
communities gain greater access to computer 
training and provide them with skills to improve 
their career opportunities. We plan to support 
another 1,300 women in 2018.  The Black NVIDIAN Network launched with an awareness event 
at our headquarters tied to Black History Month.   
Developer Inclusivity and Diversity
Our annual developers forum, the GPU Technology 
Conference (GTC), is held each year in San Jose, 
California, and several other locations around the 
world. We recognize our responsibility to ensure 
that attendees are free from harassment  and to 
communicate that we wish to hold an inclusive 
event  that recognizes all participants. These 
messages have prominent position on the GTC 
website and are communicated in attendee emails 
as well as onsite signage. 
For the fifth year in a row, our flagship GTC in San 
Jose included an event specifically focused on 
diversity. We hosted a Women in Deep Learning 
networking breakfast and panel along with partner 
Silicon Valley Women in Big Data. The sold-out 
event featured women speakers from NVIDIA and 
women CEOs from AI startups. OUR OPERATIONS  WORKFORCE AND INCLUSION
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201837OUR OPERATIONS  WORKFORCE AND INCLUSION
More than 100 employees, including members of NVPride, NVIDIA’s LGBT group, participated this year in the San Francisco Pride Parade. 
Other activities to increase the number of women 
and minority technologists attending GTC San  
Jose include: 
 ›Offering free conference passes to 15 local and 
national women in technology organizations, 
reaching more than 20,000 women and 
underrepresented technologists at groups such 
as Women in Machine Learning, Women in AI, 
Black in AI, and Women Who Code.
 ›Actively reaching out to women in our university 
and developer network to encourage them to 
speak, doubling the number of women originally 
submitted to speak at the conference.
 ›Highlighting women speakers on the main  
GTC website .
 ›Offering complimentary passes to women  
at local universities and hosting a mixer  
for this group. 
 ›Providing passes to high school girls 
participating in the AI4All  program and  
inviting them to attend one of our onsite  
Deep Learning Institute labs.
Outside of GTC, we hosted a dinner during the 
Women in Computer Vision workshop this past 
summer. An overview of the event, including a  
talk by one of our female research scientists,  
can be found here . Members of our NVPride community partnered with Silicon 
Valley non-profit to pack comfort kits for high risk youth.  
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201838
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH,  
AND SAFETY
We identify and control environmental impacts 
and continuously improve our performance using 
a comprehensive environmental management 
system (EMS). Our dedicated Environmental, 
Health, and Safety (EHS) & CSR team works 
closely with employees in all offices around 
the globe to execute the system’s policies and 
practices, which are made tangible through solid 
goals and metrics. 
Environment
Our Silicon Valley operations, product design, and 
supply chain functions have been certified to the 
ISO 14001 standard since 2006 and we successfully 
upgraded to the ISO 14001:2015 standard in FY19 
(view our certification here ). Our Environmental, 
Health, Safety and Energy Policy provides the 
framework for our EMS, which is summarized in 
this section and detailed throughout this report. 
We aim to: 
 ›Increase energy efficiency and reduce  
GHG emissions arising from our offices,  
labs, and datacenters.
 ›Reduce waste tonnage to landfills.
 ›Increase water efficiency at facilities  
in water-stressed regions.
 ›Promote alternative options for  
employee commuting. 
See Our Performance for a broad list of metrics  
we track related to the environment.OUR OPERATIONS
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY
POLICY ELEMENT ACTION
Product Design Learn about our approach to power efficiency in  
Product Design . 
Energy, Water, Waste, 
and Greenhouse Gas 
EmissionsOur reduction commitments and initiatives are included  
in this section.
Product Supply Chain See Supplier Responsibility  for our detailed approach to 
managing environmental issues in our product supply chain. 
Corporate Purchasing Our corporate purchasing decisions are based on 
requirements such as quality, service levels, technology, 
financial viability, environmental impact, and cost. 
When selecting suppliers, we allocate 5 percent of the 
supplier selection score to environmental considerations. 
When evaluating suppliers to provide environmentally 
significant products or services, we take additional 
measures to ensure that our environmental performance 
expectations are met. 
Stakeholder 
EngagementSee Our Stakeholders  to learn about the ways we gather 
feedback from across our ecosystem.
Compliance Our internal teams, EHS consultants, and external 
regulatory authorities carry out inspections to ensure  
that our facilities are legally compliant. 
We evaluate customer compliance through audits and 
quarterly business reviews.
We have well-established processes for ensuring that 
our contract manufacturers comply with product-related 
legislation relevant to the markets in which we sell our 
products. We require our manufacturing suppliers to 
comply with the RBA Code of Conduct . NVIDIA’S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201839CATEGORY GOAL TARGET DATE/STATUS FY18 PROGRESS
Greenhouse gas 
emissions, offices, 
and datacentersA 15% greenhouse gas reduction — 
normalized per employee — by FY2020 
from baseline year FY2014 FY20/Ongoing Down 1.6% compared 
to FY17 and down 
13% compared to 
FY14 baseline
Energy efficiency, 
datacentersA blended average power usage 
effectiveness (PUE) value of 1.55 for our 
global datacenters by the end of FY2018 FY18/Complete 1.52
Waste A waste-to-landfill diversion rate of 80% 
or greater each year at our Silicon Valley 
headquartersAnnual/Ongoing 74% (calendar year 
2018)
New headquarters 
buildingLEED Gold certification for our new Silicon 
Valley headquarters buildingFY18 Awaiting 
certification, see 
“Energy Initiatives ” 
below. 
Energy efficiency Implement an energy management system, 
aligned with ISO 50001FY19/New Goal Completed initial 
screening and 
analysis
Consumer product 
packaging15% reduction in total materials used 
compared to previous generationFY19/New Goal In progress
Product efficiency 30% improved power efficiency in idle 
state (as defined by Energy Star) for next 
generation of GPUs for datacenters, 
desktops, and notebooks FY19/New Goal In progressOUR OPERATIONS  ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY
NVIDIA’S ENVIRONMENTAL GOALSNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201840
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOUR OPERATIONS  ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY
Climate Change and Greenhouse  
Gas Emissions
Our GHG emissions reporting includes: 
 ›Scope 1: Stationary combustion sources  
(e.g., natural gas, diesel fuel) and HFC 
refrigerant emissions 
 ›Scope 2: Purchased electricity, healing and 
cooling (offices, labs, datacenters) 
 ›Scope 3: Business travel, emissions from 
operational waste, upstream transportation 
and distribution, purchased goods and services, 
capital goods, and fuel- and energy-related 
emissions that are not included in Scope 1 or 
Scope 2. For FY18, we’ve reported upstream 
transportation emissions for the first time and 
have reallocated purchased electricity used to 
cool third-party datacenters from Scope 2 to 
Scope 3 (including for historic years), because  
we do not have operational control of this 
emissions category. 
Our current GHG goal is to reduce Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 15 percent per employee by FY20, 
compared to FY14. Our overall energy use and 
emissions have increased as our business has 
grown over the past year, but this increase was 
outpaced by the increase in headcount. As a result, 
we reduced our GHG emissions per headcount by 
1.6 percent compared to the previous fiscal year.
While we are continuing to track and make progress 
toward our current goal, during the coming year we 
will evaluate options to set a next-generation goal 
that is appropriate for our growing and diversifying 
business, bearing in mind emerging best practices 
for corporate GHG goal setting. 
We recognize that our growing business causes 
GHG emissions beyond our direct footprint, because 
emissions are created at every stage of our product 
lifecycle, extending to our customers’ use and 
disposal of our products. Since FY15, we have 
required our key manufacturing suppliers to report 
their energy usage and GHG emissions data. In 
FY18, we added a requirement that they have their 
GHG emissions verified by a third party. We are 
using the data gathered from suppliers to calculate 
the weighted average of carbon emissions from tier 
1 suppliers on a per-unit basis, which is helping us 
to better understand the GHG emissions footprint of 
our product manufacturing. 
MT CO2e
MT CO2e/HC
010000200003000040000500006000070000
00.751.502.253.003.755.25
4.50
FY16 FY17 FY18
Scope 1 Scope 2 GHG/HeadcountSCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONSNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201841Campuses
In September 2017, we opened our new 500,000-square-foot building 
at our Silicon Valley headquarters. It was designed with high levels of 
energy efficiency in mind — approximately 33 percent less usage than 
a traditional design. Energy-saving features such as a high-performing 
building envelope, efficient and smart lighting systems that incorporate 
the use of daylight, underfloor air distribution, radiant heating and 
cooling, both air and waterside economizers, and high-efficiency boilers 
and chillers make this possible. An advanced building controls system 
underpins the building’s operation. The building was designed and 
constructed to achieve Gold certification under LEED New Construction, 
and at the time of report publication, we are awaiting final confirmation 
of certification. The building has already been recognized and awarded 
a significant number of points for Sustainable Sites, Water Efficiency, 
and Energy and Atmosphere categories. Notable achievements include 
recognition for its access to alternative transportation, and superior 
energy and water use performance. Other LEED buildings include:  Pune, 
India (LEED Gold for interiors); Shanghai, China (LEED Silver); and a data 
center in Santa Clara, Calif. (LEED Platinum certification for interiors). 
We piloted our first onsite solar panel installation during FY18. The solar 
panels on one of our headquarters buildings generate 700,000+ kWh 
annually. Following this successful pilot, we’re evaluating options to 
generate clean, renewable power at additional facilities, including our 
offices in India, where the latent grid electricity is unreliable and carbon 
intensive. To support our employees who wish to generate solar power at 
home, we’ve partnered with a major solar power company to offer $1,000 
rebates on the installation of solar panels. 
Our computer and chip development labs represent our more energy-
intensive operations. We’re taking steps to consolidate lab activities at 
our headquarters campus to reap significant efficiency benefits due to 
better space utilization and flexibility.
During FY18, we completed an energy management system (EnMS) gap 
analysis and have set a goal to implement an EnMS that is aligned with 
the ISO 50001 standard and integrated with our ISO 14001 EMS. The 
EnMS will help us to bring greater visibility and a focus on continual 
improvement to our energy consumption, which will be important as  
our company grows.Datacenters
Datacenter operations are responsible for 29 percent of Scope 1 and  
2 GHG emissions from our facilities. These operations are set to grow 
along with our expanding business and our diversification into new  
online services. 
As we look ahead to an increase in our global datacenter footprint, we’re 
working to incorporate environmental considerations — including energy 
and water efficiency — and renewable power options into our datacenter 
siting and sourcing evaluations. 
Meanwhile, we’re focused on improving facility efficiency in datacenters 
under our operational control (including datacenters we own and 
operate and third-party datacenters where we are the sole tenant). 
As reflected in our environmental goals (see chart above), one of the 
metrics we track is PUE. Our datacenter team also actively benchmarks 
energy performance and closely monitors the operations of our cooling 
systems to drive down energy use. OUR OPERATIONS  ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY
ENERGY INITIATIVES
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201842
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOUR OPERATIONS  ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY
Commute Initiatives 
We established our Green2Work program at our Silicon Valley 
headquarters in FY15 to encourage our employees to reduce their 
commute footprint. The program includes electric vehicle charging,  
pre-tax dollars for transit and local transit shuttles, last-mile shuttle 
service for train riders, expanded bicyclist resources, advantages for 
carpooling and vanpooling, a shuttle from San Francisco, an online 
resource for commuters, and an emergency ride home program.
 
We have 40 car and three motorcycle electric-vehicle charging stations at 
our headquarters, and to date, 450 employees have used this service with 
the help of vehicle charging valet parking attendants. In FY18, we started 
offering the Scoop commuting service in Silicon Valley. In less than a year, 
NVIDIA Scoop commuters have avoided over 214,904 miles and saved 
almost 194,725 pounds of CO2 (as of March 2018). For cyclists, we provide 
lockers, showers, and secure bike parking, and we began vanpooling last 
year. To assist our alternative commuters in the event of an emergency, 
we offer an emergency ride home through Lyft or Uber. Waste Initiatives
We have tracked total waste 
generated and waste diversion rates 
at our headquarters since FY08, 
and our annual goal for landfill 
diversion is 80 percent. In CY17, we 
achieved a 74 percent rate. During 
this coming year, we are taking a 
range of measures to improve our 
diversion rate, such as employee 
awareness campaigns that include 
improving signage to support better 
separation, incorporating recycling 
requirements into our facilities 
project requirements, and optimizing 
waste services throughout the campus.
Our single biggest waste stream comprises food and other organic  
wastes sent for composting. Since starting our composting program in 
FY10, we have reduced the amount of organic waste sent to landfills by  
10 million pounds. We are also working to reduce the amount of other 
types of waste we generate, and in FY18 we generated 4 percent less 
office and catering waste per employee than in FY17. Our initiatives 
include replacing disposables with durable, washable tableware in our 
employee restaurants; replacing single-use items such as sachets; and 
partnering with our food services vendor to make weekly donations of  
food to homeless shelters.
CarpoolingElectrical Car 
Charging
Biking Motorcycling Valet ServicesSubsidy 
ProgramUberPOOLNVIDIA 
ShuttlesVanpoolingEmergency 
Ride HomeGREEN2WORK PROGRAMRecycle
41%
Waste Breakdown  
for California headquarters.Landfill
26%Compost
33%NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201843Water Initiatives
We do not manufacture our products in-house, so our direct operations 
are not water intensive. We do, however, have a large presence in 
California, which is a water-stressed region. We use water primarily for 
cooling towers, food service, landscaping, and sanitation. 
As we develop and grow our headquarters campus, we’re implementing 
measures to conserve water resources and reduce our potable water 
demand. Our new headquarters building incorporates a range of water 
conservation measures. Through the installation of low-flow bathroom 
fixtures and the use of recycled water for toilet flushing, the building is 
designed to achieve a 42 percent reduction in domestic water demand 
and a 91 percent reduction in potable water use for sewage conveyance. 
Reclaimed water is also being used in the building’s cooling towers and to 
irrigate landscaping, which consists of native, drought-resistant plants. Reporting and External Assurance 
Each year, we participate in the CDP Climate Change and Water surveys. 
Participants are scored based on their understanding and management 
of their business risks, opportunities, and impacts related to climate 
change and water resources. Between FY10-16, we improved our Climate 
Change disclosure score from 34 to 98 (out of a possible 100 points). In 
FY17, we scored an A- in the CDP’s new scoring paradigm for Climate 
Change and a B for Water. In FY18, we scored a B for both Climate Change 
and Water. While these scores are above average for our industry sector 
and the CDP program average scores, we’re evaluating how to improve 
our CDP results, because we recognize that they are an important 
indicator of how well we manage climate change and water security 
issues. See our most recent CDP response attached . 
Since FY13, Trucost has assured that our GHG emissions data and 
contextual information in our CDP response meets the AA1000  standard 
(see the FY18 assurance report ). OUR OPERATIONS  ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201844
NVIDIA is committed to providing a safe and healthy 
environment for our employees, contractors, 
visitors, and communities, and to implementing 
practices that enable NVIDIA employees to work 
illness and injury-free.
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
We offer programs throughout the year to assist 
with employees’ personal wellness, including health 
analysis, skin cancer screening, and hereditary 
cancer screening. Our record reflects the results 
of our dedication to employee health and wellness. 
Less than one percent of leave-of-absence requests 
within NVIDIA relate to work. Our lost-time incident 
rate is zero percent and our total recordable incident 
rate is 0.17 percent. Few workers compensation 
claims are submitted, and the majority of those 
processed are repetitive motion injuries. In 
recognition of this fact, we’ve taken steps to work 
with affected employees through our ergonomics 
program and online courses. 
SAFETY
Our Environmental Health and Safety team 
oversees workplace conditions for NVIDIA 
employees globally. Team members provide 
guidance to ensure that facilities meet or exceed 
local safety requirements; promote safe work 
practices; and support compliance with applicable 
health and safety legislation and policies through 
trainings, communications, and audits.Our global EHS management framework includes: 
 ›A network of Site Safety Officers that provide 
local EHS accountability.
 ›Documented, globally-applicable programs on 
key topics, including contractor management, 
ladder safety, ergonomics, and vehicle safety.
 ›External EHS audits and internal EHS 
inspections of our owned and leased offices. 
Keeping our employees safe requires planning for 
emergencies. Our volunteer Emergency Response 
Teams involve more than 300 employees around 
the world. These volunteers assist with evacuation 
drills and may receive training in basic first aid, 
CPR, AED, and/or fire extinguisher training in 
addition to emergency preparedness that will 
enable them to rapidly respond in an emergency  
or disaster. 
In FY18, the emergency response team for our 
Headquarters campus participated in a Stanford 
University training called Stop the Bleed, a program 
created at Stanford to maximize the number of 
survivors in the event of a major disaster.OUR OPERATIONS
HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLNESS
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201845
PRODUCT DESIGN
Whether we are designing technology to power 
next-generation tablets or creating designs to 
support high-performance supercomputers, 
improving energy efficiency is a principal goal 
in each step of our research, development, and 
design processes.
Parallel processing consumes far less power  
than equivalent computational forms. On a  
per-instruction basis, GPUs are 10 times more 
efficient than CPUs, which have traditionally 
handled most instructional processing. OUR OPERATIONS
PRODUCT DESIGN
Fourteen of 20 of the most energy-efficient supercomputers 
use NVIDIA technology, according to the latest Green500 list, 
including our own NVIDIA DGX SATURNV, which is ranked No. 4. 
For the second time in three years, NVIDIA received in 2017 a 
coveted PACE Award, the automotive industry’s equivalent to 
the Academy Award. This time, the award was presented for 
the NVIDIA DRIVE PX 2 AI car computer , a platform for building 
self-driving cars.
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201846
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAME
NVIDIA NVLink
NVLink interconnect technology lets data move 
between GPUs and CPUs five to 12 times faster than 
they can with PCI-Express. It doubles the number 
of GPUs that can work together in deep learning 
computations, and enables more flexible and 
energy-efficient server design compared to PCI-E.OUR HIGHLY EFFICIENT PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES INCLUDE:
NVIDIA Jetson
NVIDIA Jetson is the world’s leading AI computing 
platform for GPU-accelerated parallel processing in 
mobile embedded systems. Its high-performance, 
low-power computing for deep learning and 
computer vision makes it the ideal platform for 
compute-intensive embedded projects. 
NVIDIA GPU Cloud
NVIDIA GPU Cloud is a GPU-accelerated platform that 
enables data scientists and researchers to rapidly 
build, train, and deploy neural network models to 
address some of the most complicated AI challenges. 
It manages a catalog of fully integrated and optimized 
deep learning framework containers and is optimized 
to run on any accelerated computing environment. 
NVIDIA CUDA
CUDA is a parallel-computing platform and model 
that enables compute-intensive calculations to 
be executed on lower cost, power-efficient GPUs. 
More than 1,000 courses that use GPUs are being 
taught in universities all over the world, and NVIDIA 
supports more than 850,000 global developers who 
are programming with GPUs.
NVIDIA DGX SATURNV
The DGX SATURNV AI supercomputer provides 
the compute power to train deep neural networks 
significantly faster and create more intelligent AI. 
Efficient energy consumption and faster computing 
mean a smaller datacenter footprint. What once 
required a warehouse can now fit into the equivalent 
of a large conference room. 
NVIDIA Tesla
The Tesla Accelerated Computing Platform is the 
leading platform for accelerating big data analytics 
and scientific computing. The latest Top500 list of 
the world’s fastest supercomputers shows that 87 of 
these systems use NVIDIA Tesla GPU accelerators. 
NVIDIA Xavier
Our Xavier system on a chip integrates the 
Volta GPU architecture, a custom eight-core 
CPU architecture, and a new computer vision 
accelerator. The processor delivers 30 trillions 
of operations per second of performance while 
consuming only 30 watts of power. As the brain of 
self-driving cars, Xavier is designed to be compliant 
with critical automotive standards, such as the ISO 
26262 functional safety specification.
NVIDIA Volta
With more than 21 billion transistors, Volta is the 
most powerful GPU architecture the world has 
ever seen, delivering 120 teraflops of deep learning 
performance, a 5x increase compared to our previous 
architecture and equivalent to the performance of 
100 CPUs. Every major cloud service provider uses 
Volta GPUs, as do many NVIDIA offerings. The NVIDIA 
DGX Station personal supercomputer, for example, 
uses Volta to offer the computing capacity of 400 
CPUs while consuming nearly 40x less power and 
fitting neatly under a desk.  
OUR OPERATIONS  PRODUCT DESIGNNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201847
CHAPTER NAME
SECTION NAMEOUR OPERATIONS
UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
GOAL #11    Goal #11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable
ISSUE TARGETS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS CONTRIBUTION OF NVIDIA TECHNOLOGY
11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita 
environmental impact of cities, including by 
paying special attention to air quality and 
municipal and other waste managementRecycling Robots : Recycling is becoming 
more sophisticated, safer, and less costly 
thanks to machine learning. Barcelona-
based Sadako has created a robot that uses 
machine learning to sort recycling and then 
extract specific types of valuable waste, like 
PET plastic bottles. A GPU-powered robot 
can differentiate types of trash and snatch 
selected items with a robotic arm. The method 
can target specific kinds of trash for recycling, 
separating valuable materials from garbage, 
and relieving some of the burden on workers.
GOAL #14   Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources for sustainable development
ISSUE TARGETS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL CONTRIBUTION OF NVIDIA TECHNOLOGY
14.3 Minimize and address the impacts of ocean 
acidification, including through enhanced 
scientific cooperation at all levels Deep Water Learning : The world depends 
on the health of coral reefs. A deep learning 
process using NVIDIA’s CUDA programming 
model running on powerful GPUs automatically 
analyzes reef photos of corals, sponges, algae, 
and other elements. It’s 900x faster than 
the traditional method but just as accurate, 
allowing scientists to quickly assess the health 
of reefs so they can take steps to protect them.
GOAL #15   Protect, restore, and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, 
combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation  and halt biodiversity loss.
ISSUE TARGETS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL CONTRIBUTION OF NVIDIA TECHNOLOGY
15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, 
restoration, and sustainable use of 
terrestrial and inland freshwater 
ecosystems and their services, in  
particular forests, wetlands, mountains, 
and drylands, in line with obligations under 
international agreements An AI Airborne Conservatory : The Carnegie 
Institution for Science and Stanford University 
use NVIDIA AI accelerators and a powerful 
spectral imaging method to map Peru’s 
300,000 square miles (including the Amazon) 
of rainforest in unprecedented detail. By 
identifying each tree species by its chemical 
composition, the spectral imaging map 
takes the guesswork out of protecting one 
of the most biodiverse places on Earth and 
pinpointing new areas for conservation. In 
one area of the Amazon, deforestation has 
increased 500 percent since 2009, and AI-
driven spectral mapping can advance our 
ability to save forests and curb climate change. 
To see other Sustainable Development Goals, see Our Priorities .NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201848
Our commitment to producing products 
responsibly and sustainably requires us to pay 
close attention to our supply chain. We work 
with the subcontractors who manufacture our 
products to monitor and improve their social 
and environmental performance, and we require 
them to comply with international guidelines for 
responsible practices and materials safety. 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
ALLIANCE
We became a member of the RBA (formerly 
EICC) in 2007. In 2017, the RBA established 
four membership categories, ranging in levels 
of involvement: Supporter, Affiliate, Regular 
Member, and Full Member. After our application 
was reviewed, NVIDIA was granted Full Member 
status in January 2018. We adopt the RBA Code of 
Conduct  to drive our own practices as a supplier 
to the world’s largest electronics companies 
and we use it for the suppliers who manufacture 
and assemble our products. We’ve integrated 
RBA risk assessment tools, auditing protocols, 
and educational resources into our supplier 
management practices, and our employees are 
deeply engaged on workgroups most relevant to 
our supply chain operations. The RBA enables us 
to leverage the collective weight of more than 100 
electronics companies and provides a platform that 
lets us go above and beyond compliance.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company 
(TSMC) and Samsung manufacture our 
semiconductor wafers. Our two main contract manufacturers for company- or partner-branded 
devices are Foxconn and BYD. Foxconn, Samsung, 
and TSMC are RBA members. 
RESPONSIBLE MINERALS/
MATERIALS
We support, contribute to, and rely on industry-wide 
efforts to validate the source of minerals used in 
our products, ensuring that they come from socially 
responsible sources and do not contribute to human 
conflict. Our goal is to use only Democratic Republic 
of Congo (DRC) conflict-free gold, tantalum, 
tungsten, and tin in our products. We’re a member 
of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) and 
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals 
Trade (PPA). NVIDIA supports these on-the-ground 
programs aimed at improving transparency for 
responsible sourcing and reducing human rights 
risks, including forced labor. 
Our due diligence program regarding conflict 
materials is designed to conform in all material 
respects with the framework recommended by 
the Organization for Economic Co-operation and 
Development. Review our policy  to understand  
our goals and the steps we take to monitor our 
supply chain for conflict minerals. Additionally,  
we participate in various RMI work groups and align 
our program with the organization’s tracking of 
additional minerals and materials and geographic 
areas of high concern. 
FY18 COMPLIANCE REPORT
We measure compliance against RBA member 
requirements and the RBA Code of Conduct for 
NVIDIA and its suppliers. The included tables track 
NVIDIA’s supplier performance in these areas.OUR OPERATIONS
SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY
MANUFACTURING  
COMPLIANCE
NVIDIA manufacturing suppliers must 
comply with the following: 
 › NVIDIA’s Conflict Minerals Policy
 › EU RoHS
 › EU REACH 
 › EU End of Life Vehicles 
 › Halogen Free/Low Halogen
 › ISO 14001:2015 
 › OHSAS 18001 (GB/T 28001-2011 in China)
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201849OUR OPERATIONS  SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY
COMPLIANCE ELEMENT NVIDIA’S REQUIREMENT NVIDIA PERFORMANCE
Risk assessment on all strategic suppliers 100% 100%
Self-assessment questionnaires (SAQ) 
completed by suppliers in the top 80%  
of NVIDIA spending100% 100%
Validated Audit Process (VAP) among 25% 
of high-risk suppliers0 (due to lack of  
high-risk suppliers)In FY18, we reviewed six VAP audits of strategic 
suppliers. We define strategic suppliers as 
those that produce or handle NVIDIA production 
material; those with which we engage in the QBR 
process, which includes non-critical suppliers 
needing control based on what product/service 
they provide.
Corrective action plans (CAP) 0 (due to lack of  
high-risk suppliers)We engaged eight suppliers on their CAPs from 
the FY17-18 auditing season. Common findings 
include working hours, social insurance, and fire 
protection.
We’ll continue monitoring to ensure that suppliers 
demonstrate effective processes to close these 
findings and ensure compliance.RBA MEMBER COMPLIANCENVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201850
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMERBA CODE ELEMENT NVIDIA AS SUPPLIER NVIDIA AS CUSTOMER
Labor  ›Updated NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct to strengthen 
human rights language
 ›Relevant NVIDIA employees took several RBA 
Learning Academy courses ›Evaluated all contract manufacturers and direct 
material suppliers on geographic location, 
manufacturing processes, past SER performance 
and public reports
 ›Worked with suppliers to track working hours 
through VAP, CAPs, or RBA working-hours templates
 ›Worked with suppliers to address and comply with 
“zero hiring” fees
 ›Assigned Learning Academy courses to suppliers, 
including:
 ›Hours of Work
 ›Working Hours Recording System
 ›Working Hours Management System
 ›The Hiring Process 
 ›Recruitment and Selection
 ›Hiring and Working with Migrant Workers
 ›Wages and Benefits
 ›Creating Motivating Wage Systems
 ›Improving Your Dormitories
Health and Safety  ›Conducted an annual tour of all NVIDIA offices  
to audit health and safety
 ›Updated environmental, health, safety and  
energy policy ›Closed CAPs covering all health and safety issues
 ›Reviewed improvement plans on health and safety 
as part of OHSAS 18001 for alignment with eight 
suppliers
 ›Assigned Learning Academy courses to suppliers
 ›Effective H&S Systems 
 ›Fire Safety
 ›Managing Air Emissions2017 PERFORMANCE WITH THE RBA CODE OF CONDUCTOUR OPERATIONS  SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITYNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201851
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMERBA CODE ELEMENT NVIDIA AS SUPPLIER NVIDIA AS CUSTOMER
Environmental  ›Submitted water (score B) and supply chain 
(score B) to CDP
 ›Completed RBA online environmental survey  
on carbon, water, and waste 
 ›Participated in environmental sustainability  
work group  ›Calculated carbon, water, waste data of all 
silicon manufacturers and systems contract 
manufacturers to determine carbon emissions  
and water consumption per product and per 
financial outlay
 ›Required compliance with environmental standards 
(see Manufacturing Compliance sidebar)
 ›Reviewed suppliers’ environmental improvement 
plans for ISO 14001 alignment 
 ›Assigned Learning Academy courses to suppliers
 ›Environmental Protecti¬on 
 ›Managing Energy and GHG Emissions
 ›Water and Wastewater Management
 ›Resolving Wastewater Treatment Issues
 ›Managing Waste
Ethics  ›Continued membership in RMI
 ›Participated in RMI work groups on due-diligence 
data collection,  and smelter engagement  ›Engaged 100% of suppliers to collect smelter  
data for our conflict minerals program
 ›Continued evaluation of smelter metrics  
for the annual SEC conflict minerals  
reporting requirement
 ›Inactivated suppliers non-compliant with product 
and conflict mineral requirements
 ›Assigned Learning Academy courses to suppliers
 ›Supply Chain Ethics
 ›Recognizing Forced Labor
 ›Preventing Forced Labor
Management 
Systems ›Participated in VAP work group
 ›Evaluated RBA full membership tier to  
determine any gaps (accepted in January  
2018 as full member) ›Conducted quarterly business reviews of suppliers
 ›Assessed compliance with updated RBA Code with 
respect to labor fees and freedom of association
 ›Implemented a performance-based award system 
for strategic suppliers
 ›Assigned Learning Academy courses to suppliers
 ›Understanding Supply Chain Responsibility
 ›Industry Standards
 ›Responsible Supply Chain Management (for 
Factory Management)
 ›Supply Chain CSR Monitoring
 ›Using KPIs2017 PERFORMANCE WITH THE RBA CODE OF CONDUCTOUR OPERATIONS  SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITYNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201852
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMESUPPLIER ASSESSMENT
We have streamlined our existing and new supplier 
assessment process over the past two years. 
Our new supplier assessment process includes a 
compliance analysis and CSR topics review, which 
includes being vetted against general product 
compliance industry standards, conflict minerals 
data, and RBA Code compliance through the RBA 
online system. 
Existing strategic suppliers are evaluated 
through quarterly business reviews (QBRs). Five 
of 100 points are allocated to CSR issues, and 
supplier requirements vary by quarter. Each 
quarter, overall supplier assessment is reviewed 
by product category and performance is ranked. 
Business allocation decisions are influenced by 
QBR performance.
We unified our compliance requirements and 
specifications to cover all manufacturers in our 
supply chain. The specification agreements will be 
deployed and tracked through the QBRs to ensure 
that all strategic manufacturers transition to the 
new requirements.
Our progress against goals set in FY18 and our 
goals for FY19 are detailed in Our Performance .OUR OPERATIONS  SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201853
We continually seek new ways to minimize  
our environmental footprint, and work  
steadily to improve our product packaging 
and delivery methods. 
COMPLIANCE
We comply with all applicable laws and regulations 
in the countries where we operate. Compliance 
areas include hazardous substances, conflict 
minerals, packaging, and logistics.
In compliance with the FY17 decision on the renewal 
of EU RoHS Directives Exemptions, we have 
voluntarily restricted the use of lead in our GPUs.
Where appropriate, we review and make changes 
to bills of material to ensure that our products 
meet customer and legislative requirements 
while delivering optimal performance. In addition, 
we have specific agreements for environmental 
compliance with specialized suppliers.
We routinely incorporate into our process third-
party lab inspections to verify compliance with 
applicable standards. We engage an external 
consultant to benchmark and review our practices, 
and we participate in joint industry training 
activities so that we can align our practices  
with customer and industry expectations.OUR OPERATIONS
PRODUCT DELIVERY
REDUCED HAZARDOUS 
SUBSTANCES
Our regulatory and certification guidelines 
for hazardous substances include: 
 ›California Prop 65
 ›China RoHS
 ›Conflict Minerals
 ›Directive on Packaging and Packaging 
Waste 
 ›EU RoHS and Country Specific RoHS
 ›EU REACH 
 ›EU ELV 
 ›Global Automotive Declarable Substance 
List (GADSL)
 ›Halogen Free/Low Halogen
 ›ISO 14001:2015
 ›Korea RoHS 
 ›OHSAS 18001 (GB/T 28001-2011 in China)
 ›Taiwan RoHS
 ›EU WEEE and Country Specific WEEENVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201854OUR OPERATIONS  PRODUCT DELIVERY
PACKAGING
In packaging our products, we strive to maintain a 
balance of protecting the environment and ensuring 
that our customers receive their products in excellent 
condition.Every new product we ship provides an 
opportunity to reduce packing materials and increase 
the proportion of recyclable materials used. 
We use 100 percent recycled fibers in 100 percent 
of our bulk carton packages and in over 80 percent 
of our consumer packages. We re-use materials as 
much as possible. Whether products are packaged 
for end-users or prepared for bulk shipping, we 
design our containers to maximize package density 
and reduce overall package size. 
For our SHIELD consumer products, we 
implemented changes in the first 36 months 
of its availability, which resulted in reduced 
environmental impacts. These changes included 
development of smaller and lighter weight 
packaging sizes, creating a “core box” system so 
that primary packaging and shipping carton boxes 
can be shared among product SKUs as needed. 
With product protection in mind, wherever plastics 
are required, we use recyclable HDPE-2 in place of 
polystyrene PS-6 material.
Additionally, wherever possible, we’ve stopped 
using anti-static foam material, and transitioned 
to a 60 percent recycled and recyclable foam 
material. We provide online instructions wherever 
possible, although some markets still require 
printed instructions in the box. 
For our SHIELD tablet consumer packaging, 
in FY18 we reduced packaging volume by 69 
percent and decreased pallet usage by 43 percent 
compared to previous generation packaging.
Other efforts to recycle and reduce packaging include: 
 ›Using vegetable-oil based printing inks;
 ›Reusing moisture-barrier bags, trays and bulk 
cartons whenever feasible; 
 ›Using suppliers that leverage distribution centers 
to minimize the shipping footprint of packing/
packaging materials;
 ›Shipping product whenever possible directly to 
the retail distributor; 
 ›Applying materials labels to 100 percent of our 
packages to simplify consumer recycling; and
 ›Leveraging existing packaging for return 
merchandise authorization support when feasible.
 Our key bulk and consumer packaging suppliers 
are compliant with NVIDIA’s Environmental 
Compliance Certification for Forestry Stewardship 
Council, ROHS, and REACH certifications. 
We’re reviewing our GPU-related packaging, for 
both GeForce and Quadro, with a goal to reduce 
materials used by 15 percent in the next year.
For automotive systems and our biggest GPUs, 
such as the DGX-2, with its large cardboard box 
and protective foam, we aim to have all packaging 
material that is both recycled and recyclable. 
And we’re reducing paper use by providing online 
instructions wherever possible.
LOGISTICS
The methods we use to plan, pack, and execute our 
raw material, work-in-progress, and finished-goods 
shipments have a significant effect on our carbon 
footprint. Fuel represents a major component of 
our overall freight costs, and our continuous focus 
on optimizing our supply chain and reducing freight 
expenditures has resulted in cost savings and a 
positive impact on the environment.
We made efforts to optimize logistics as follows:
 ›Implemented consolidation programs to efficiently 
configure packing and reduce the number of pick-
ups and deliveries.
 ›Oversaw subcontractor packing to ensure 
that cartons and pallets are fully packed and 
efficiently unitized.
 ›Used lightweight paper or cardboard pallets, 
where feasible, to reduce shipment weights.
 ›Implemented a multimodal (ocean/truck) 
replenishment program within the U.S. and retail 
distribution outside the U.S. 
 ›Instituted a balanced supplier scorecard that 
includes awarding points for our suppliers’ 
participation in environmental initiatives. 
 ›Implemented reverse logistics solutions that use 
onsite or regional failure verification and repair 
to streamline product returns and eliminate 
international shipments.
We continue to gather data from shipping partners 
related to the carbon emissions of our shipments 
from air, land, and sea. Our goal is to determine the 
appropriate metric by which to target reductions.NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201855
Our technology and philanthropic efforts put NVIDIA 
at the forefront of solving the world’s most complex 
social and scientific problems. We work with leading 
visionaries to help bring their work to fruition and 
use the NVIDIA blog and social media channels to 
help draw attention to their efforts. Included in this 
section are some of the stories we’ve highlighted 
over the past year about these efforts. 
SELF-DRIVING CARS  
AND SAFETY 
Automotive safety isn’t a box you check. It’s not a 
feature. Safety is the whole point of autonomous 
vehicles, and it is designed into the NVIDIA DRIVE 
computer for autonomous vehicles from the ground 
up. Learn  about our relentless focus on safety.
AI IN EDUCATION
AI is touching a growing number of jobs and will 
be an enormous part of the future workforce. 
Recognizing the importance of education, NVIDIA 
supports youth and adult education programs that 
harness our research and technology platforms to 
help foster a deeper understanding of AI and enable 
people to take advantage of the opportunities it 
offers worldwide.  Learn more  here. FINDING A CURE FOR 
CANCER WITH AI
Your mother. Your best friend. Your colleague. 
Your child. Globally, nearly one in six deaths 
results from cancer. AI and deep learning are 
transforming cancer research. Read more  about 
the role NVIDIA and its partners are playing in this 
search for the cure. OUR OPERATIONS
SOCIAL IMPACTS OF OUR TECHNOLOGY
RECOGNIZING  
REVOLUTIONARIES
GLOBAL IMPACT AWARD  
NVIDIA provides $200,000 to researchers 
using NVIDIA technology for groundbreaking 
work that addresses social, humanitarian, and 
environmental problems.
This year, we split the award between two 
institutions for their research addressing 
social, humanitarian, and environmental 
problems. Princeton University  enlisted AI 
to help establish the feasibility of delivering 
fusion energy in the foreseeable future. 
The University of Malaga  is using GPUs to 
transform tsunami early warning systems.
NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201856
Through the NVIDIA Foundation, we accelerate 
solutions to the world’s most challenging issues in 
health and education. Led by four staff members 
and guided by a nonexecutive employee board of 
directors, we engage our employees, work with 
our partners, apply our technology, and target our 
financial resources in efforts to advance the fight 
against cancer and help youth excel in learning.
In FY18, NVIDIA and our employees donated nearly 
$4.4 million and more than 9,000 volunteer hours 
to support nonprofit organizations around the 
world. More than 65 percent of our offices held  
at least one charitable-giving event. 
Our Fight Against Cancer
Compute the Cure , our strategic philanthropic 
program, awards grants and fosters employee 
engagement initiatives aimed at advancing the 
fight against cancer. We fund cancer researchers 
who use innovative computing methods to 
accelerate their work, and support nonprofit 
organizations that provide patient care and 
services. Offices around the world hold events  
to engage employees in raising funds for cancer-
focused organizations. Through grants and employee fundraising efforts, 
NVIDIA donated more than $1.3 million to this 
effort in FY18. For example, we:
 ›Provided $200,000 grants to research teams 
from the Ludwig Cancer Research Insti¬tute and 
University of Toronto. These institutions use GPUs 
and deep learning to explore new genetic pathways 
for clues to more effective cancer treatments. 
 ›Awarded four $50,000 grants to nonprofits . 
These funds support: counseling services in 
rural areas of Central California that benefit 
children with cancer and their families, an art 
therapy program at two children’s hospitals in 
the San Francisco Bay Area, a no-cost treatment 
program in India for people without the financial 
resources to treat their eye cancer, and cancer 
awareness and screening camps in remote areas 
across India and Nepal. 
 ›Raised more than $485,000 for the American 
Cancer Society’s Making Strides Against Breast 
Cancer walk, earning recognition as the top 
fundraising team in the U.S. This fundraising 
activity involved nearly 800 NVIDIANs and their 
families and friends.OUR OPERATIONS
CHARITABLE GIVING 
Employees, family, and friends at our Silicon Valley headquarters participate in the American Cancer Society’s Making Strides Against Breast Cancer 5K walk. Nearly 800 walkers 
raised more than $485,000, making Team NVIDIA the top fundraising team in the U.S. in 2017. NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201857
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOur Efforts in Education
The NVIDIA Foundation’s education initiatives  
provide K-12 students the tools and skills they need 
to succeed. We offer opportunities to underserved 
and underrepresented youth, strive to improve 
math and science education, and inspire youth to 
enter occupations requiring science, technology, 
engineering, and math (STEM) skills. 
We launched the NVIDIA Techsplorer program 
in FY18. This initiative introduces underserved 
students to cutting-edge technologies, such as 
AI and deep learning, through hands-on learning 
activities. We partner with Iridescent, a global 
education nonprofit, to create open-ended 
engineering challenges that introduce core 
technical concepts and engage NVIDIA engineers 
to educate and inspire the students.
Employees get opportunities to use their time and 
talent to help students through mentoring and 
tutoring programs. Our annual Project Inspire  
volunteer effort physically transforms schools and 
other youth-focused organizations in low-income 
areas to create a welcoming and stimulating 
environment for learning. In FY18, the company and our employees donated more than $2 million and 
6,200 volunteer hours to these education-related 
efforts and reached more than 72,000 children. 
In FY18, we:
 ›Reached 2,400 students through our new 
Techsplorer program via NVIDIA-hosted student 
events and teacher trainings, and donations of 
Techsplorer activity kits.
 ›Revamped education facilities through 
Project Inspire  events held by our offices in 
Austin, Bangalore, Beaverton, Berlin, Bristol, 
Cambridge, Courbevoie, Durham, Hsinchu,  
Pune, Reading, Taipei, Westford, and Würselen.
 ›Built and stocked school libraries in China  
with more than 10,000 books and donated  
more than 2,000 backpacks through our offices’ 
back-to-school efforts.  
Measuring Success
We use several metrics to measure the success 
of our giving and volunteerism programs. The 
accompanying chart shows our progress and 
outlines our goals for the coming year.
FY17 FY18 FY19 Goals
Percent of NVIDIA offices holding 
charitable-giving events90% 65% 80%
Offices participating in Project  
Inspire events12 14 16
# of Project Inspire events 10 12 14
Volunteers 4,072 2,937 3,600
Volunteer rate, total 42% 27% 30%
Volunteer rate, unique 30% 21% 25%
Number/value of volunteer hours 17,400 / $417,600 9,394 / $226,771 11,000 /$265,540
Donations, company cash $2,392,044 $3,043,878 N/A
Donations, in-kind $184,349 $292,437 N/A
Donations, employee $389,812 $1,062,493  N/A
Total donations $2,966,205 $4,398,808  N/A
Administrative overhead 8% 4% 8%OUR OPERATIONS  CHARITABLE GIVING 06
OUR  
PERFORMANCENVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201859
OUR PERFORMANCE
GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
As mentioned in Our Priorities , our CSR objectives are to drive operational efficiency and excellence, improve employee recruitment 
and retention, and manage CSR risks and reputation. Throughout this report, we detail specific accomplishments related to the 
initiatives we implemented, which reflect these objectives and the priority issues linked to them. 
In this section, we provide an overview of our environmental, social, and economic performance in FY18 and our goals for FY19. 
FY18 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE
PRIORITY PROGRESS COMMENTS
Rank all active suppliers for their  
compliance to the RBA Code of Conduct, 
leveraging our RBA membership and using  
the RBA-Online platform.70% Initial requests sent and assessments conducted 
for higher spend suppliers. We will outreach to all 
spend suppliers in FY2019.  
Release a unified set of procedures for 
monitoring our suppliers’ products and social 
compliance. Work with strategic contract 
manufacturers to execute a new agreement.50% Unified procedures created to comply with  
updates to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Goal will 
continue in FY2019.
Investigate obtaining full material disclosures 
(FMD) for all products.100% Contracted with a third-party service to support 
FMD data management and create FMD in several 
formats, including XML IPC1752.
Identify ISO 14001 gaps related to a product life-
cycle perspective and EOL recycling.100% Closed all gaps and completed specification to 
represent the life-cycle perspective.
Request greenhouse gas third-party certification 
from strategic contract manufacturers.90% All requested suppliers will be asked to complete  
in FY2019.NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201860
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEFY18 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION
PRIORITY PROGRESS COMMENTS
Roll out second phase of unconscious bias 
programming, which includes implementing bias 
mitigation techniques into recruiting and team 
dynamics activities, launching Textio resume 
platform globally, and providing bias awareness 
training to our human resources recruiting 
team.60% We are still evaluating partners for unconscious 
bias program development; we had paused Textio 
roll out to make it easier for all employees to use 
and it is being rolled out internationally at this  
time; HR recruiting team has been trained in 
unconscious bias in hiring practices. 
Continue tracking progress on measures  
across the diversity and inclusion metrics  
of hiring, retention, and turnover.100% See diversity and inclusion  section within  
our Workforce. 
Create employee resource groups for Latino  
and veteran communities. Continue our support 
of existing African-American, early career, 
LBGTQ, and women’s groups.70% Hispanic-Latino Network formed in early FY19, 
veteran resource group still being evaluated by 
employees; held discussions between our CEO 
and resource communities (African-American, 
Hispanic, women, veterans, and early career 
employees), which resulted in significant  
expansion of our parenting benefits to fund 
adoptions, in vitro fertilization, and egg freezing.
Hold an NVIDIA Inclusion Day event to create 
awareness of and recruit for employee 
resource groups.100% Held as part of Club Day in FY18; FY19 goal is for 
event focused exclusively on resource groups, with 
their executive staff sponsors in attendance. 
Support a women-in-tech resource  
group to create tailored career  
development opportunities. 100% Held four events to bring development content to 
women: Stanford Women in Data Science webcast; 
deep learning panel with internal executives; 
conference paper preparation workshop; and  
panel on deep learning featuring women CEOs  
from NVIDIA’s startup program.  OUR PERFORMANCE  GOALS AND PERFORMANCENVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201861
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEFY18 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE   
RISK AND REPUTATION
PRIORITY PROGRESS COMMENTS
Apply for the new Full member category for  
the EICC (now RBA ).100% Achieved 
Achieve 100 percent conflict-free on all  
products by the end of FY18.93% This calculation is based on the percentage of the 
processing facilities in our supply chain that are 
compliant, as determined by the Responsible  
Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP).
Maintain a response rate of 100 percent on  
the Conflict Minerals Report Template for all 
active suppliers.100% Achieved 
Conduct a SWOT analysis to identify areas 
for improvement in performance and 
communications and/or positioning regarding 
CSR issues.100% Achieved. Key trends discovered through the  
SWOT include talent pipeline, the role of  
technology in shaping society, and resource 
efficiency through the product lifecycle. 
Connect UN Sustainable Development Goals 
with our efforts in innovation, health, gender 
equality, and environment.100% Achieved. See Our Priorities
Maintain inclusion in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index North America.100% Achieved
Maintain a 100 percent score in the Human 
Rights Watch Corporate Equality Index.100% AchievedOUR PERFORMANCE  GOALS AND PERFORMANCENVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201862
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEFY19 GOALS
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE
Maintain Full member status in the RBA.
Expand quarterly business review process to include strategic mechanical, component, and packaging suppliers.
Work with suppliers deemed high risk to improve their RBA risk performance status.
Achieve 100 percent RMAP-compliant tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold processing facilities.
Pass audit against updated ISO 14001:2015 standard, which includes a focus on integration of electronics manufacturing  
services into business processes and considerations of the life-cycle perspective.
Rank all active suppliers for their compliance to the RBA Code of Conduct, leveraging our RBA membership and using the  
RBA-Online platform.
Monitor disclosure demand for additional conflict minerals and materials.
Complete indirect supplier diversity analysis.
Evaluate clean energy options in datacenters and India offices.
Implement ISO 50001 Energy Management System.
Conduct climate and water risk assessment.
Complete gap analysis against the ISO180001 Health and Safety Management System standard.
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION
Roll out second phase of unconscious bias programming, which includes implementing bias mitigation techniques into  
team dynamics activities.
Examine learning and development courses that cover meeting execution and collaboration to determine how to integrate  
bias-mitigating tactics.
Hire a diversity recruiter to increase the number of women and underrepresented minorities in the recruiting pipeline.
Track diverse hires through the recruiting funnel.
Implement Reboot, a program that helps women return to the workforce.
Conduct an annual learning and development needs analysis with our employee resource groups (ERGs).
Hold an event on our main campus to create awareness for our ERGs, and launch new websites for active groups.OUR PERFORMANCE  GOALS AND PERFORMANCENVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201863
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEFY19 GOALS
RISKS AND REPUTATION
Board of Directors to commence oversight of corporate social responsibility (began May 2018).
Develop training materials for our new Code of Conduct.
Update anti-bribery and create anti-trust policies.
Prepare for General Data Protection Regulation compliance.
Broaden the scope of our public relations coverage to promote our AI leadership.
Better understand our responsibility to address social issues related to AI, such as bias and workforce impact.
Raise our profile in Washington, D.C., with regard to autonomous driving and AI research.
Launch an internal CSR series focusing on the people behind NVIDIA’s CSR.
Maintain inclusion on key workplace and CSR lists.OUR PERFORMANCE  GOALS AND PERFORMANCENVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201864
OUR PERFORMANCE
ECONOMIC
Included here is an overview of the company’s economic activity over the past three fiscal years, and a reporting of our revenue by region.
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Dollars represented in millions
FY16 FY17 FY18
Revenue $5,010 $6,910 $9,714
Total operating expenses $2,064 $2,129 $2,612
Net income $614 $1,666 $3,047
Gross margin 56.1% 58.8% 59.9%
Income tax expense (benefit) $129 $239 $149
Total assets $7,370 $9,841 $11,241
Total stockholders’ equity $4,469 $5,762 $7,471
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $7,370 $9,841 $11,241
Revenue by country/region See chart See chart See chart
Intended capital return (dividends and  
stock repurchases)$800 $1,000  $1,250
Compensation of named executive officers See Proxy Statement See Proxy Statement  See Proxy Statement
REVENUE BY REGION
FY2014
$9.71B
FY 201820%
31%
21%13%7%8%
$6.91B
FY 201719%
37%
15%13%7%9%
$5.01B
FY 201616%
38%
15%13%8%10%
China Taiwan Other Asia Pacific United States Other Americas EuropeNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201865
OUR PERFORMANCE
WORKFORCE AND DIVERSITY
EMPLOYEE PROFILE
 Employees  Offices  Countries
FY2018 11,528 48 21
FY2017 10,299 42 20
FY2016 9,227 42 18
FY2015 9,228 48 18Each year, we report workforce data to our 
external stakeholders. These metrics, combined 
with employee survey data, help us determine how 
we can improve in specific areas throughout our 
enterprise. The data show a diverse and engaged 
employee base, with a turnover rate well below the 
industry average. We gather information for this report at the 
end of the fiscal year, and the data points in the 
accompanying charts reflect a snapshot of our 
employee base at that time. 
 • Americas • EMEA • India • APAC Total
Exempt 5,970 811 1,960 2,154 10,895
Non-Exempt 246 20 308 59 633
Contractors 1,396 97 1579 338 3,410
Interns 108 19 105 97 329HEADCOUNT BY TYPENVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201866
Age
20—30, 43.5% 31—50, 48.5%
51+, 8%
Male, 78.8% Female, 19.1%Gender
Not Declared, 2.1%OUR PERFORMANCE  WORKFORCE AND DIVERSITY
NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER
NEW HIRES BY REGIONEMPLOYEE TYPE BY LEVEL
Employee
TypeIndividual Contributors
9,428 (81.8%)
TOTAL
11,528Management
2,074 (18.0%)Executive
26 (0.2%)
NALA
55.1%EMEIA
9.1%
INDIA
17.9%APAC
17.9%NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201867FY18 FY17 FY16
Asian/Indian 50.1% 51.0% 51.1%
White 41.1% 42.9% 43.2%
Hispanic 3.3% 3.4% 3.5%
Black 1.0% 1.1% 0.9%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
American Indian/Alaska Native 0.08% 0.13% 0.15%
Two or more races 0.54% 0.32% 0.27%
Decline to state 3.60% 0.89% 0.56%
TOTAL 100% 100% 100%PROMOTIONS
In FY18, we promoted 12.7 percent of our workforce. 
Of the 1,466 promotions, 93 (6 percent) were at the 
level of director or above, 255 (17 percent) were 
women, and 436 of U.S. promotions were from 
minority groups. 
TURNOVER DATA
Even though the high-tech industry is extremely 
competitive, NVIDIA’s turnover continues to 
decrease, dropping to 5.6 percent in FY18, 
compared with the semiconductor industry 
average of 14.2 percent. Our voluntary turnover 
rate is 5.1 percent, well below the semiconductor 
industry average of 9.7 percent.
 
DIVERSITY
As stated in our Equal Employment Opportunity 
Policy  and Code of Conduct , we are committed  
to providing equal opportunity to all employees 
and applicants. 
The level of diversity at NVIDIA reflects the current 
state of the technology and engineering industries 
as a whole. Roughly 71 percent of our employees 
work in technical fields that are historically male-
dominated. We seek to address gender imbalances 
in the technology and engineering fields through 
programs aimed at increasing the number of 
women and minorities in engineering. Learn more 
about our approach to diversity and inclusion in 
Our Operations .EMPLOYEE RACIAL/ETHNIC DIVERSITY SNAPSHOT*OUR PERFORMANCE  WORKFORCE AND DIVERSITY
OVERALL TURNOVER VOLUNTARY TURNOVER
FY2018 5.6% 5.1%
FY2017 6.7% 5.8%
FY2016 13% 7.2%
FY2015 8.7% 7.9%
FY2014 8.4% 7.6%
Our turnover rate increased in FY16 to 13.0 percent due to a business closure.
* Minority data represents the United States only.NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201868OUR PERFORMANCE  WORKFORCE AND DIVERSITY
11.8%
leaders
40.0%
 executive officers8.49%
leaders
40.0%
 executive officers18.4%
in global workforce15.9%
managers
18.6%
in global workforce16.1%
managers
12.9%
 in technical roles18.2%
outside directors
13.3%
 in technical roles20.0%
outside directors
GENDER TURNOVER
FEMALE MALE
FY18 5.4% 5.3%
FY17 6.7% 6.3%
FY16 9.4% 13.9%
FY15 7.9% 8.2%
FY2017Male
81.5%
Female
18.4%
Not Declared
0.10%
FY2015Male
83.5%
Female
16.5%
Not Declared
Not known
FY2016Male
82.5%
Female
17.5%
Not Declared
Not known
FY2018Male
81.4%
Female
18.6%
Not Declared
0%
AGE DATA
Age20—30
23.5%
31—50
62.7%
51+
13.8%GENDER DATA
POSITIONS HELD BY WOMEN (FY18) POSITIONS HELD BY WOMEN (FY17)NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201869
OUR PERFORMANCE
ENVIRONMENT
POLICIES, CERTIFICATIONS  
Name Response
Assurance of Scope 1 and Scope 2 global GHG emissions Yes
Environmental policy Yes
Corporate responsibility directive Yes
Environmental supply chain management directive RBA members
ISO 14001 certified sites 1 (Silicon Valley, CA - scope includes the operational footprint of 40% 
of our global workforce as well as global supply chain management, 
logistics and product design and development)
Emissions reduction initiatives Yes
Waste reduction initiatives Yes
Water reduction initiatives Yes
Climate change policy See our Environmental, Health, Safety and Energy Policy
Climate change opportunities discussed Yes; see CDP
Climate change risks discussed Yes; see CDP
Number of environmental fines 0
Amount of environmental fines $0NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201870OUR PERFORMANCE  ENVIRONMENT
GREENHOUSE GAS DATA
Metric FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15*
GHG Scope 1 total global (tCO2e) 2,356 2,571 2,419 3,339
 Stationary natural gas 2,253 2,313 2,316 2,483
 Stationary distillate fuel oil 43 78 71 205
 Gasoline 44 42 16 14
 Refrigerants 16 139 16 637
  Perfluorocarbons (PFCs)  
   (Santa Clara headquarters lab operations)Less than 0.001 Less than 0.001 Less than 0.001 Less than 0.001
GHG Scope 2 total global (tCO2e) - market baseda58,081  47,321 44,162 48,355
 Purchased electricity 57,637  46,902 43,767 47960
 Purchased heating/cooling 444 419 395 395
Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2 total – tCO2e)a60,437 49,892 46,581 51,694
Normalized GHG emissions per employee  
(Scope 1 and 2 total/headcount) 3.96 4.02 4.28 4.79
% change in normalized GHG emissions per 
employee, compared to FY14-13% -11% -5% 6%
GHG Scope 2 total global (tCO2e)a - location based 51,230  50,841 48,528 49,343
GHG Scope 3 (US) (tCO2e) 323,165 274,367 234,887 114,510
 Purchased goods and services (indirect procurement) 190,734 150,741 159,976 42,791
 Capital goods 50,463 78,076 31,748 30,829
 Fuel- and energy-related activities not included  
 in Scope 1 and 221,613 20,246 19,039 20,623
  Upstream transportation and distributiond28,590 Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked
 Waste generated in operationsb405 240 839 184
 Business travel  31,360  25,064  23,285  20,083 
Scope 1 carbon dioxide emissions (metric tons) 2,335 2,427 2,398 2,695
Scope 1 nitrous oxide emissions (metric tons) 2 2 2 2
Scope 1 methane emissions (metric tons) 3 4 3 4
Sulfur dioxide emissions (metric tons)h 0.08  0.14  0.12  0.36 
VOC emissions (metric tons)h 0.17  0.16  0.15  0.43 
Carbon monoxide emissions (metric tons)h 0.25  0.44  0.41  1.17 
ODS emissions from HCFC s (metric tons R-11e)h0.003 0.010 0.004 0.009 
Particulate emissions (metric tons)h 0.08  0.14  0.13  0.38 NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201871
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOUR PERFORMANCE  ENVIRONMENT
ENERGY, WASTE, WATER
Metric FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15*
Energy used (global) (MWh)  153,907  138,873  130,620  131,038 
Energy per headcount (global) 
(MWh/employee) 10.08  11.19  12.01  12.15 
Non-renewable fuels purchased and  
consumed (MWh) 12,796  13,262  13,217  14,652 
Non-renewable electricity purchased (MWh)  88,905  90,016  84,419  76,180 
Steam / heating / cooling and other energy  
(non-renewable) purchased (MWh) 176  177  141  131 
Total renewable energy purchased or generated  
for own consumption (MWh)e52,029  35,418  32,844  40,075 
Renewable electricity as percentage of total 
electricitye37% 29% 36% 24%
Total power generated, onsite solar (MWh) 719  0 0 0
Blended average Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) 
for global data centers1.52 1.56 1.58 1.57
Water withdrawal, global (cubic meters)  262,269  213,359  194,879  258,634 
Surface water 0 0 0 0
Groundwater  14,481  13,535  24,364  5,199 
Rainwater collected directly & stored 0 0 0 0
Wastewater from another organization  13,796 0 0 0
Municipal water supplies or other public/private 
water utilities 233,992  199,824  170,515  253,435 
Percent of water (internally) recycled 0 0 0 0 
Water consumption, global (cubic meters)f 55,681   39,506  29,127  57,193
Water discharge, global (cubic meters)  206,587  173,853  165,752  201,441 
Total waste, corporate headquarters (metric tons)g 2,670 2,987 15,628c1,256NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201872
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEOUR PERFORMANCE  ENVIRONMENT
ENERGY, WASTE, WATER
Metric FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15*
Total waste recycled /composted  1,974  2,261  14,792  990 
     General waste recycled  334 138 105 232
     General waste composted  874 799 651 594
     Clean paper recycled  102 145 70 86
     Batteries recycled  2 2 1 1
     Hazardous waste recycled  0.4 1 1 1
     Electronic waste recycled  59 64 98 76
     Lamps recycled  0.5 1 1 0.5
     Construction/demolition waste recycled  602 1,111 13,866c0
Total waste landfilled  696  726  836 266 
     General Waste landfilled  474 480 349 266
     Hazardous waste landfilled  0   0 0 0
    Construction/demolition waste landfilled  223 246 487 0
a Selected historic values have been updated to reflect changes in methodologies or corrections to data. For example, we are now calculating Scope 2 market-based 
and location-based emissions per the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol and have updated prior years’ data to align with the new methodology. 
b In FY16, we began reporting on Scope 3 GHG emissions for waste generated at corporate headquarters.
c In FY16, we accumulated a large amount of demolition debris as part of our project to construct a new Silicon Valley headquarters building. 88% of this debris was 
recycled. 
d In FY18, we started reporting Scope 3 upstream transportation emissions.
e In FY18, we started calculating our global renewable energy use, excluding grid and including renewables from generation, utilities and residual mix. Previous years 
only reflect renewables from local utility in Silicon Valley.
f Water consumption includes water consumed by landscaping and evaporated in cooling tower for our new headquarters building.
g Waste data for corporate headquarters is estimated on a calendar year basis. 
h As of FY18, these metrics have been calculated and reported with historical year values updated. ODS emissions are from HCFCs; sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide and 
particulate emissions are from diesel generators. VOCs are from diesel generators and Santa Clara campus lab solvent usage (e.g. wipe cleaning)
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
We track, but do not currently publish, the following health and safety metrics for employees and contractors:
 ›Accidents 
 ›Lost time from accidents
 ›Fatalities
 ›Leave of absence requestsNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201873
OUR PERFORMANCE  GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GRI INDEX
GRI INDEX
We applied the internationally recognized Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting 
Standards  to produce this FY18 CSR Report. This 
report has been prepared in accordance with the 
GRI Standards: Core option.Per GRI guidelines, we indicate the location of the 
required “general disclosures” and each of the 
“topic-specific standard disclosures” related to 
our priority issues (“Disclosures on Management 
Approach for material topics” and selected 
indicators). In some cases, we provide a direct 
response to indicators or additional information 
related to content located in the main pages of  
the report within the index itself. 
2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016*
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organization 2018 10-K
102-2 Activities, brands, products,  
and services ›2018 10-K
 ›About NVIDIA
 ›NVIDIA Products
 ›Product Delivery
102-3 Location of headquarters Santa Clara, California, USA
102-4 Location of operations  ›Our Locations
 ›Significant operations in US (California), India and China. Offices  
in 21 countries. 
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 Proxy Statement
102-6 Markets served  ›Our Locations
 ›2018 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization.  ›Performance, Economic
 ›Performance, Workforce
 ›NVIDIA Products
102-8 Information on employees and  
other workers ›Performance, Workforce
 ›NVIDIA employs several contract employees globally who provide a variety of 
roles across our operations and administrative functions. Current temporary 
worker percentage is 22% of total headcount (employees + contractors).
102-9 Supply chain Supplier Responsibility
102-10 Significant changes to the 
organization and its supply chainNone.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach We do not specifically apply the precautionary principle. A description of the 
role of the Board in risk oversight is located in the 2018 Proxy Statement.
2018 Proxy Statement
102-12 External initiatives Supplier Responsibility
102-13 Membership of associations Supplier ResponsibilityNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201874OUR PERFORMANCE  2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016*
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior  
decision-maker ›CEO Letter
 ›EVP Operations Letter
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behavior  ›Governance and Ethics
 ›Culture, Code and Values
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsGovernance and Ethics
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure  ›Corporate Governance
 ›NVIDIA has two committees responsible for decision-making on economic, 
environmental, and social topics: a staff-level committee and an executive-
level committee. Beginning in 2018, the Nominating & Governance 
Committee of NVIDIA’s board will take up corporate social responsibility. 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employees in the US, Canada, India and APAC regions are not unionized. 
Employees in Brazil are unionized. Employees in our EMEA region 
(which make up 7% of our total employee population) could participate in 
unions but NVIDIA is legally not allowed to inquire with them about their 
involvement. NVIDIA participates in collective bargaining agreements in 
France, Finland and Italy. Employees in France and Germany have formal 
representation on work councils.
102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholdersStakeholder Engagement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement ›No engagement undertaken specifically as part of the report.
 ›Stakeholder Engagement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder EngagementNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201875OUR PERFORMANCE  2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016*
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements 2018 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic 
BoundariesPriorities
102-47 List of material topics Priorities
102-48 Restatements of information There were no restatements of information.
102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant changes in scope and topic boundaries.
102-50 Reporting period About this Report
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2017
102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report
102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportAbout this Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards:  
Core option.
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance  ›Environment
 ›We did not seek external assurance for the report. NVIDIA’s internal  
audit group reviews key metrics in our sustainability report for accuracy.  
We provide limited assurance for scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, 
and scope 3 waste, travel, upstream transportation and distribution, and 
FERA emissions.
* NVIDIA's 2018 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 
 NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201876OUR PERFORMANCE  2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 103: TOPICS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES 2016*
Material Topic Management Approach Cross-Reference Relevant External Entities
ECONOMIC
GRI 201:  
Economic  
Performance 2016 ›2018 10-K
 ›2017 CDP ›Customers
 ›Consumers
 ›Shareholders
 ›Developers
 ›Suppliers
 ›Government
 ›Communities
ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 302:  
Energy 2016Environment  ›Customers
 ›Consumers
 ›Developers
 ›Suppliers
GRI 308:  
Supplier Environmental 
Assessment 2016Supplier Responsibility Suppliers
SOCIAL
GRI 401:  
Employment 2016 ›Workforce
 ›Stakeholder Engagement ›Prospective employees
 ›Shareholders
GRI 404:  
Training and  
Education 2016Workforce Prospective employees
GRI 414:  
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016Supplier Responsibility  ›Customers
 ›Shareholders
 ›Suppliers
GRI 418:  
Customer Privacy 2016 ›Priorities
 ›NVIDIA Privacy Policy ›Customers
 ›Consumers
 ›Shareholders
 ›Governments
* NVIDIA's 2018 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report.NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201877OUR PERFORMANCE  2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016*
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions & Explanations
ECONOMIC
GRI 201:  
Economic  
Performance 2016201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributed ›Performance, Economic
 ›2018 10-K
 ›NVIDIA Foundation Report
201-2 Financial implications and 
other risks and opportunities 
due to climate change2017 CDP
201-4 Government financial 
assistance ›We have funding from the Department of Energy, 
DARPA and the Department of Defense for GPU-
related research. No governments are present  
in NVIDIA's shareholder structure.
 ›Priorities
 ›NVIDIA Among Six Companies to Receive $258 Million 
from U.S. Department of Energy for HPC Research
ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 302:  
Energy 2016302-1 Energy consumption within  
the organizationPerformance, Environment
302-3 Energy intensity Performance, Environment
302-4 Reductions in energy 
consumptionEnergy consumption initiatives implemented 
during FY18 are projected to deliver total annual 
electricity savings of 16,308 GJ over their lifetime. 
The projections are derived from engineering 
estimates. Initiatives include lab renovation projects 
incorporating efficient lighting, HVAC and controls; 
installation of a high efficiency hybrid chiller and 
data center equipment tuning to increase efficiency. 
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements 
of products and services ›Product Delivery
 ›Performance, Environment
GRI 303: Water 2016** 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance, Environment
GRI 305:  
Emissions 2016**305-1 Scope 1 GHG emissions Performance, Environment
305-2 Scope 2 GHG emissions Performance, Environment
305-3 Scope 3 GHG emissions Performance, Environment
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Our GHG emissions intensity, ratio is 3.96, compared to 
4.79 in our baseline fiscal 2015. The metric chosen to 
calculate the ratio is our global headcount of employees 
and contractors =15,276 in FY18. Scope 1 and scope 2 
(60,437 CO2e) are included in the intensity ratio. 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions  ›Operations, Environment
 ›Performance, Environment
305-6 Emissions of ODS Performance, Environment
305-7 NOx, SOx, and other significant 
air emissionsPerformance, EnvironmentNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201878GRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016*
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions & Explanations
ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 306: Effluents  
and Waste 2016**306-2 Waste by type and  
disposal methodPerformance, Environment
GRI 307:  
Environmental 
Compliance 2016**307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulations ›We consider significant fines those that are 
required to be disclosed in the company's SEC 
filings. There were no fines in FY18 that fell into 
this category. We also were not subject to any  
non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance  
with environmental laws and regulations.  
There were no cases brought through dispute 
resolution mechanisms.
 ›Performance, Environment
GRI 308:  
Supplier Environmental 
Assessment 2016308-1 New suppliers screened using 
environmental criteria ›In 2016 we implemented a process for new 
suppliers, which includes screening them for 
environmental and social criteria. 100% of new 
suppliers were screened in FY18.
 ›Supplier Responsibility
SOCIAL
GRI 401:  
Employment 2016401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnoverPerformance, Workforce
401-2 Full-time benefits not provided  
to temporary/part-time 
employees ›We provide employees with a comprehensive 
benefits package (see NVIDIA benefits for more 
information). US employees are eligible to enroll in 
NVIDIA's health and welfare programs if they are 
regular, full-time or part-time employees normally 
scheduled to work 20 hours or more per week and 
more than 5 months/year. Part-time employees 
working fewer than 20 hours/week are not eligible.
 ›Workforce
 ›NVIDIA benefits
GRI 404:  
Training and  
Education 2016404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programs ›Transition support is available through the 
Employee Assistance Program, which is available 
through COBRA. In some cases, NVIDIA may 
provide outplacement services. NVIDIA's Learning 
& Development organization provides skills 
building and lifelong learning opportunities.
 ›Workforce
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews100% of employees receive regular performance 
and career development reviews.
GRI 405:  
Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity 2016**405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees ›Performance, Workforce
 ›Our board gender/racial diversity is 27%.  
NEO gender diversity is 40% and racial/ethnic 
diversity is 40%.OUR PERFORMANCE  2018 GRI CONTENT INDEXNVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201879GRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016*
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions & Explanations
SOCIAL
GRI 407:  
Freedom of Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 2016**407-1 Operations and suppliers in 
which the right to freedom 
of association and collective 
bargaining might be at risk ›We ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self- 
Assessment Questionnaires on an annual basis,  
in which they self-report information on freedom 
of association and collective bargaining. We 
validate this with critical Tier 1 suppliers through 
the RBA Validated Audit Process protocol.
 ›NVIDIA's Code of Conduct
 ›Corporate Responsibility Directive
 ›RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 408:  
Child Labor 2016**408-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents  
of child labor ›We ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self- 
Assessment Questionnaires on an annual basis, in 
which they self-report information on child labor. We 
validate this with critical tier 1 suppliers through the 
RBA Validated Audit Process protocol.
 ›Supplier Responsibility
 ›NVIDIA's Code of Conduct
 ›RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 409:  
Forced or Compulsory 
Labor 2016**409-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents  
of forced or compulsory labor ›We ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self- 
Assessment Questionnaires on an annual basis,  
in which they self-report information on forced  
or bonded labor. We validate this with critical tier  
1 suppliers through the RBA Validated Audit 
Process protocol. 
 ›Supplier Responsibility
 ›Combatting Trafficking in Persons Policy
 ›RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 414:  
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria  ›In 2016 we implemented a process for new 
suppliers which includes screening them for 
environmental and social criteria. 100% of new 
suppliers were screened in FY18.
 ›Supplier Responsibility
GRI 417:  
Marketing and Labeling 
2016**417-2 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labelingWe consider significant substantiated complaints 
those that are disclosed in the company's SEC 
filings. There were no substantiated complaints  
in FY18 that fell into this category.
GRI 418:  
Customer Privacy 2016418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses  
of customer dataWe consider significant substantiated complaints 
those that are disclosed in the company's SEC 
filings. There were no substantiated complaints  
in FY18 that fell into this category.
GRI 419:  
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 2016**419-1 Non-compliance with laws and 
regulations in the social and 
economic areaWe consider significant fines those that are required 
to be disclosed in the company's SEC filings. We 
were not subject to any significant fines in FY18 for 
non-compliance with laws and regulations.OUR PERFORMANCE  2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX
* NVIDIA's 2018 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report.
**We have reported additional disclosures not related to material topics.   NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201880
ABOUT THIS REPORT
The NVIDIA FY18 Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report covers our economic, social, and 
environmental performance for fiscal year 2018, 
which ended January 28, 2018. We report our 
performance annually via our website. 
Previous CSR reports:
The report includes consolidated economic, 
environmental, and social information for our 
global operations. No significant changes have 
occurred during the reporting period with regard 
to the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 
applied in this report. 
The environmental information contained in 
this report covers energy and greenhouse gas 
usage for our global operations, and water 
and waste usage for our Silicon Valley, Calif., 
headquarters. We report on those entities over 
which we exercise operational control, including 
subsidiaries and leased facilities (except for 
shared space). We calculate greenhouse gas 
emissions for global offices with greater than 
50,000 square feet of office space (which equal 90 
percent of our total greenhouse gas footprint) and 
estimate emissions for offices that comprise the 
remaining 10 percent of our footprint. We determined the content for this report based 
on conversations among management and 
engagement with customers, suppliers, and 
employees. This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 
We’ve been reporting through GRI since FY11. 
NVIDIA’s GRI index, which contains general and 
topic-specific disclosures, is found here . We have 
engaged Trucost  to provide limited assurance 
on our FY18 global Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse 
Gas emissions, and for Scope 3 (fuel and energy 
related activities, waste, upstream transportation 
and distribution, and business travel), all under 
the AA1000 assurance standards. The assurance 
report is available in the Environment  section.
We welcome feedback on this report and our 
performance. Please send comments and 
suggestions to globalcitizenship@nvidia.com  or to:
NVIDIA  
Corporate Responsibility  
2788 San Tomas Expressway 
Santa Clara, CA 95051
Related sustainability links:
 ›NVIDIA Corporate Responsibility Directive
 ›NVIDIA Environmental Policy
 ›NVIDIA Code of Conduct
 ›NVIDIA Corporate Governance
 ›FY17
 ›FY16
 ›FY15
 ›FY14 ›FY13
 ›FY12
 ›F Y11
 ›FY10NVIDIA CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 201881
CHAPTER NAME  SECTION NAMEThe information contained in this report is 
accurate as of approximately June 12, 2018  
unless a different date is used in this report.  
The information is subject to change, and NVIDIA 
will not necessarily disclose such changes. 
The information may be updated, amended, 
supplemented, or otherwise altered  
by subsequent reports or filings by NVIDIA.
Certain statements included or incorporated by 
reference in this report, other than statements or 
characterizations of historical fact, including, but 
not limited to, statements as to:  our growth; our 
market opportunities; the performance, impact 
and benefits of our products and technologies; our 
strategies; our priorities, goals, and objectives; 
market trends; future forecasts; and other 
predictions and estimates are forward-looking 
statements. These forward-looking statements 
are based on our current expectations, estimates, 
and projections about our industry, and our 
management’s beliefs and assumptions. We 
caution readers that these statements are merely 
predictions and are not guarantees of future 
results. Actual events may differ materially, 
perhaps adversely.
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent 
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports 
on Form 8-K, and other filings made with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission discuss 
some of the important risk factors that could 
contribute to differences between projections 
and outcomes, which could affect our business, 
operational results, and financial condition. 
Except as required by law, NVIDIA does not 
recognize any obligation to revise or update any 
forward-looking statements.ABOUT THIS REPORT