2021 NVIDIA
CORPORATE SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORTTABLE OF CONTENTS
05SOCIAL
PRIORITY : Supply Chain Management  
and Product Quality29
PRIORITY : Employee Health and Safety 36
PRIORITY : Talent Strategy, Diversity and Inclusion 37
Employee Engagement 44
Community Engagement 47
Trustworthy AI 49
Product Safety 50
06ENVIRONMENTAL
Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 52
Energy, Water, and Waste 54
Data Centers, Labs, and Office Management 57
Environmental Impact of Products 60
07GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
FY21 Goals and Performance 65
FY22 Goals 66
Economic Performance 67
Workforce Performance 68
Diversity Performance 70
Employee Health and Safety Performance 72
Environmental Performance 72
08ESG FRAMEWORKS
GRI Index 76
SASB Index 87
TCFD Index 90
UN Sustainable Development Goals 91
ABOUT THIS REPORT01EXECUTIVE MESSAGES
Letter from our CEO 02
Q&A with our CFO 05
02PRIORITIES AND 
STAKEHOLDERS
Setting Priorities 07
Stakeholder Engagement 10
Our Response to COVID-19 14
03GOVERNANCE
Board Governance 16
Ethical Conduct 18
04ECONOMIC
PRIORITY : Innovation 19
PRIORITY : Business Model and Competitiveness 20
PRIORITY : Cybersecurity and Data Privacy 22
PRIORITY : Trade Issues 23
Business Continuity Management 24
Public Policy Engagement 25
Customer Relations 272021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ExECUTIVE M ESSAGES 2 Table Of Contents01
ExECUTIVE MESSAGES
LETTER FROM OUR CEO
Each year we share in our corporate responsibility report the hard work the people 
of NVIDIA have done to create a more sustainable company and to make a positive 
impact in our communities, on society, and on the planet.
NVIDIA is guided by a set of principles that we’ve held close to heart since our first 
days. Build a company that attracts the world’s best people in our field. Give them 
a place to do their life’s work, where they can build a great life for their family.  Do 
the really hard things that no one has done – whose solutions will have a great 
impact on society. Do things that we are uniquely able to do.
The Great Battle with COVID
These principles have guided us through our company’s history, but the great 
battle with COVID—and ways we took it on—gives them deeper meaning.
At the onset of the pandemic, we moved quickly to ensure our employees were 
safe by closing our offices and retooling NVIDIA to be a global distributed 
workforce. We made sure our families were secure by pulling raises in by six 
months, and we committed to paying our hourly contract workers.  
With the NVIDIA family taken care of, we then joined the great fight against COVID.
Our people came together to help those in need around the world. Together, 
employees and the company have contributed $17 million to support COVID-related 
causes in more than 40 countries, most recently in India where a second wave is 
underway as I write this.
 
JENSEN HUANG  
CEO and Co-Founder, NVIDIA2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ExECUTIVE M ESSAGES 3 Table Of Contents
On the technology front, we have worked with scientists, researchers, doctors, 
and hospitals around the world—hundreds of initiatives in all—to simulate the 
virus, understand its mechanics, develop vaccines and treatments, automate 
hospitals, and arm medical professionals with new tools to help them save lives.
NVIDIA-powered computers, from small autonomous machines to the most 
powerful supercomputer in the U.S., were called into service. NVIDIA AI software 
was used to sequence the virus genome, design tests, predict patient oxygen 
needs in the ICU, and even optimize and turbo-charge clinical trials when every 
second counted. 
We must be better prepared for future viruses. NVIDIA technology is essential for 
the scientific community to develop an end-to-end computational defense system, 
one that can detect early, accelerate the development of a vaccine, contain the 
spread of disease and continuously test and monitor. This will not be the last virus, 
but we can make it the last pandemic. 
Saving our Planet
And even while this battle has waged on, we are reminded that climate change 
continues its march. The stakes are nothing short of existential. We all must 
act. Whether through the cloud or in their own data centers, companies are 
consuming ever more compute power as they embrace technologies like AI. 
NVIDIA accelerated computing can meet these demands at lower energy 
consumption than traditional methods. The most energy efficient system on the 
TOP500 list of supercomputers is our own NVIDIA DG x SuperPOD. In all, 26 of the 
30 world’s greenest supercomputers are powered by NVIDIA.
Our end-to-end AI supercomputing platform powered by NVIDIA Ampere 
architecture A100 GPUs are up to 40x more energy efficient than traditional CPU 
servers when running AI and high-performance computing workloads. An 
A100-powered hyperscale data center takes up 1/50th, just 2 percent, the rack 
space of the CPU-based systems that it replaces.
If all CPU servers running AI and HPC transitioned to GPUs, the world would 
save 11 terawatt hours of electricity per year—equivalent to taking two coal-fired 
power plants offline or removing 1.7M cars from the road.
We’re also committed to powering our own data center operations with more 
renewable energy. In FY21, 17 of our locations were fully powered by renewable 
energy. Our goal is to derive 65 percent of our global electricity use from sources 
like solar by 2025.
A Wake-up Call
As we published last year’s report, millions around the world had taken to the 
streets in peaceful protest to demand justice for Black and African Americans. 
It was a call to action for all of us. NVIDIA committed to purposefully and 
systematically create opportunities for Black and African American employees 
and increase their representation at every level of our company. 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ExECUTIVE M ESSAGES 4 Table Of ContentsI’m proud that we’ve tripled Black and African American employees in the past year. 
And we became a much more diverse company globally, welcoming over 2,000 
Mellanox employees from Israel and the Palestinian Authority. We appointed 
leaders focused on inclusion, and on recruiting and retaining diverse talent, as 
well as on creating a more inclusive developer ecosystem. We still have a lot of 
work to do, but I’m excited about our progress and where we’re headed.
Through the decades, we have stayed close to our principles because we believe 
in them. We know that they are the right things to do. But this year we were reminded 
that these principles aren’t just about building a great company and leaving the 
world in better shape than we found it. We learned that the company we’ve built, 
all of us, have great power to improve lives, and that our work can and will be 
called into service at any time to save them.
It’s a great responsibility but one that brings us incredible joy. It drives us every 
day to apply our talents, our inventions, and our generosity to the world’s most 
exciting opportunities and toughest challenges.
JENSEN HUANG  
CEO and Co-Founder, NVIDIA2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ExECUTIVE M ESSAGES 5 Table Of ContentsQ&A WITH OUR CFO
What is NVIDIA’s approach to Corporate Social Responsibility?
Our employees are what makes NVIDIA great, and when we put them and their 
families first, our company and stakeholders prosper. We create technology 
that benefits people all over the world, and we continually endeavor to make our 
products more energy efficient to curb climate change.
Corporate responsibility is critical to NVIDIA’s mission and is a key priority for our 
board of directors and management as well as with every employee.
We believe in transparency and strong engagement with all stakeholders. We set 
our CSR goals and priorities every year based on feedback from stakeholders and 
with the intention to be better than we need to be. This report serves to provide a 
clear understanding of our priorities and our progress.
What was your most important learning around COVID-19?  
When it became clear that COVID-19 was a global pandemic that threatened all 
of us, we made it a priority to take care of our people first. We closed our offices 
immediately, began working remotely, and focused on their safety and well 
being. Only the employees essential to keeping our data centers running so the 
rest of the company could work remotely were allowed on our campuses, and 
they were admitted under strict safety protocols to keep them safe.
We provided our employees with enhanced health coverage and mental health 
support and moved up our yearly performance review to give our employees 
raises sooner. We took steps to ensure our campus contractors and vendors 
were compensated, and we repurposed our sites with cafeterias to provide 
meals to local families in California and India.
And NVIDIANs came together to help charities. Together with contributions 
from the company, they donated more than $16 million to COVID-related efforts 
all over the world. And when India was struck with a second wave of COVID 
this spring, employees and the company immediately donated another $1 
million to provide oxygen concentrators, ICU beds, and hygiene and food kits to 
communities across the country.
Our commitment to ensuring our people and their communities were taken 
care of and productive while working from home has paid off. Over the year, our 
product portfolio has grown as people adjusted to working, teaching, learning, 
and playing from home. From gaming for entertainment to accelerated computing 
inside data centers, our products and services have been in great demand. 
Last year NVIDIA’s CEO made a pretty definitive statement around needing to do 
more to further racial justice. What has NVIDIA done in this area?  
When Jensen said it’s not enough to just not be a racist company—we all took it 
to heart. We’re making assertive steps to create a more diverse workplace and a 
company that will better serve humanity. 
COLETTE KRESS  
Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer, NVIDIA2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ExECUTIVE M ESSAGES 6 Table Of ContentsRepresentation and inclusion start at the top. Twenty-three percent of our board 
members are women and 38% are gender, racially, or ethnically diverse. Among 
our employees, we’re increasing representation through a focused hiring effort, 
and last year we connected with 47,000 underrepresented candidates through 
virtual university and professional career events. We filled three leadership roles 
key to creating an equitable company: heads of inclusion and belonging, ethical 
AI, and diversity recruiting.
We use this report to be transparent in reporting pay and workplace equality 
data. We’re proud that this is our sixth year in achieving pay parity, and in the 
last year we’ve tripled Black and African American employees in the U.S. We 
recognize we still have a lot to do to improve representation across NVIDIA, but 
we’re pleased with our progress to date.
Our commitment to inclusion extends beyond our company to ensure our AI  
developer ecosystem is more representative of the global population. In 
partnership with several university and professional organizations, we increased 
by 4-5x the number of women and Black and Latino developers at our most 
recent developers conference. And to build a future pipeline of developer and 
employee talent, we’re partnering with nonprofits to expand curriculum access to 
AI for students in underrepresented communities. 
What’s next? 
As we look ahead, we see our commitments and choices coming to fruition. We’ll 
continue our focus on employees and their families as a top priority, and harness 
their innovation to build products that make a lasting contribution to humanity. 
We’ll continue hiring and promoting diverse talent across the company, with a 
focus on increasing diverse representation in leadership. And we’re undertaking 
efforts to create a more inclusive environment, through career acceleration 
initiatives and development of a manager playbook, while seeking guidance from 
our numerous employee resource groups on what we can do to create a place 
where all employees can do amazing work.
Finally, we recognize the need of companies to act on climate change. We are 
focusing on the carbon emissions footprint across our product lifecycle and 
developing initiatives such as net-zero and science-based targets. We look 
forward to sharing more in the coming months.  
COLETTE KRESS  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, NVIDIA 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT PRIORITIES A ND S TAkEHOLDERS 7 Table Of Contents02
PRIORITIES AND STA kEHOLDERS
SETTING PRIORITIES
We update our issue analysis each year to ensure that our priorities remain 
aligned with stakeholder expectations, market trends, and business risks and 
opportunities. For FY22, we have reconfirmed the eight priority issues we 
identified in FY21. These issues are essential to our continued business success 
and reflect the topics of highest concern to NVIDIA and our stakeholders:
 >Business Model and Competitiveness
 >Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
 >Diversity and Inclusion  
 >Employee Health and Safety  
 >Innovation
 >Supply Chain Management and Quality
 >Talent Strategy
 >Trade Issues
A strategic focus on these areas enables us to build a more agile, future-oriented 
company. We implement several initiatives related to our priorities annually, 
which provide varying levels of return according to the business goals assigned 
to the topic.WE DETERMINE OUR PRIORITIES 
IN THREE STAGES:
 >Throughout the year, the CSR 
Committee collects input from 
internal and external stakeholders 
regarding their priorities. Each 
issue is assigned a quantitative 
score based on this input.
 >Members of the Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee 
of our Board of Directors and 
several executive staff members 
review these issues. A third party 
then individually ranks each issue 
according to stakeholder input. 
Each issue is evaluated in the 
context of our changing business, 
and internal enterprise risk 
discussions.
 >The CSR Committee positions 
the issues on a matrix according 
to stakeholder and executive 
feedback, highlighting the most 
important issues to external 
stakeholders and executives.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT PRIORITIES A ND S TAkEHOLDERS 8 Table Of Contents
NVIDIA FY22 CSR Priorities
HIGH LOWSTAKEHOLDER CONCERNClimate Change
Materials Sourcing Trustworthy AI
Employee Engagement
Data Centers, Labs, and Ofﬁces Management
Public Policy Engagement
Product SafetyBusiness ContinuityDiversity and InclusionSupply Chain Management and Quality
Business Model and Competitiveness
Cybersecurity/Data PrivacyInnovation
Talent Strategy
Trade Issues
Human Rights
Customer RelationsEthical ConductEmployee Health and Safety
Water
Environmental Impact of Products
Corporate GovernanceCommunity EngagementWasteEnergy
IMPACT ON COMPANYHIGH LOW
Findings from our FY22 priorities assessment resulted in the following adjustments compared to the prior year:
 >We increased the company’s priority ranking of the 
following issues: Climate Change, Environmental 
Impact of Products, Trustworthy AI, and Waste.  
 >We changed the names of two issues to better reflect 
both our management of them and stakeholder 
expectations: Trustworthy AI (from Societal Impacts of 
AI); Data Centers, Labs, and Office Management (from 
Facilities Management); 
 >We consolidated three issues into the definitions of 
other issues: Recycling/E-waste (into Waste), Supplier 
Environmental Management (into Supply Chain 
Management), and Transport and Logistics (into 
Climate Change). >We removed Compliance, Transparency, and Brand 
and Reputation as standalone issues, as they are 
elements within all issues. 
 >We determined the following issues decreased 
in stakeholder priority: Community Engagement, 
Customer Relations, Energy, Waste, Water, 
Human Rights, Materials Sourcing, Public Policy 
Engagement, and Product Safety. 
We address our priorities in subsequent sections of this report. We define each issue, discuss why it’s important to 
NVIDIA and how we manage it, and disclose any relevant performance data. Building a Better NVIDIA
We dedicate ourselves to building 
a just, decent, and inclusive 
company. We believe it is not 
enough to be a company that does 
not oppress underrepresented 
communities. We must be 
empathetic to their experience 
and act to make NVIDIA a place 
of opportunities—a place they 
can do their life’s work. We do 
this because it is right and just, 
and because we believe it will 
help make NVIDIA better.”
—Jensen Huang, CEO“2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT PRIORITIES A ND S TAkEHOLDERS 10 Table Of ContentsSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Engaging our diverse stakeholders on important issues is integral to how we do business. We define stakeholders 
as entities or individuals who can be affected by NVIDIA and whose actions can affect the company. We rely on our 
annual priority issue assessment to help us understand the issues that matter most to them, which allows us to 
focus our engagement and transparently respond to their concerns. Members of the CSR Committee are assigned 
based on subject-matter expertise to evaluate each stakeholder request to determine what type of response is 
appropriate.
The issue most commonly raised across multiple stakeholders last year was racial and social justice. In June 2020, 
our CEO Jensen Huang addressed the racial inequities present in the United States and committed to elevate the 
urgency of increasing the Black population at every level of our company. Throughout the latter half of FY21, we 
received stakeholder requests to disclose our EEO data and commitments to diversity and inclusion  within our 
workforce. Learn more about our efforts to build a more inclusive company in the Talent Strategy, Diversity and 
Inclusion  section.
FY21 Interactions:
STAKEHOLDER FY21 INTERACTIONS
Board of Directors We engaged with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, 
which oversees CSR, to:
 >Provide an update on our CSR strategy, programs, and risks;
 >Collect feedback related to CSR issues that impact the company as part of 
our annual priority issues analysis; and
 >Present a diversity and inclusion overview and progress against goals;  
In early FY22, we briefed the committee on our climate change position and 
informed them of increased investor interest in net zero strategies.
Communities We supported more than 5,000 nonprofits in 50 countries around the world. 
Our philanthropic giving exceeded $25 million, with more than $16 million 
directed to COVID-19 related causes.
To support youth from underserved communities in developing STEM 
skills, we provided funding to and held virtual volunteer events for nine 
organizations working toward this goal. 
View the top 20 organizations we gave to in our Community Engagement  
section. See the NVIDIA Foundation annual report  for FY21 activities in  
our communities.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT PRIORITIES A ND S TAkEHOLDERS 11 Table Of ContentsSTAKEHOLDER FY21 INTERACTIONS
Customers/Developers We provided customers with completed self-assessment questionnaires 
and participated in relevant working groups through our “Full” category 
membership in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA). 
We received several requests per week from customers regarding product 
and social compliance, legal, and regulatory issues. 
Eight customers requested our participation in CDP .
We analyzed customer contracts to confirm that our priorities align with their 
requirements. 
We worked directly with customers to report our supply chain status related 
to conflict minerals. 
We partnered with customers to collaborate and present on regulatory and 
conflict minerals topics.
We supported customer quarterly business review scorecard requests.
We hosted developer conferences in the United States and China, with 151,000 
total registrations. We offered admission and training at these conferences 
for women and members of the Black/African American and Hispanic/Latino 
communities to increase participation by developers from underrepresented 
communities in technology. 
Employees and Prospective 
EmployeesWe sent several communications related to COVID-19 around employee safety, 
working from home, and mental health, and built a website with information 
to help employees navigate work during the pandemic.
We moved to a pulse survey format, delivering four focused surveys on topics 
such as COVID-19 support, team building, and CSR, with an average positive 
sentiment of 88 (out of 100 possible points) across all surveys.
We updated our Inclusion  site on nvidia.com. 
We partnered with our Black NVIDIAN Network resource group to increase 
our hiring of Black/African American employees. 
We reached 47,000 candidates from underrepresented communities in 
technology at university and professional recruiting events. 
See Diversity and Inclusion  in the Social section for more FY21 interactions 
with prospective employees.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT PRIORITIES A ND S TAkEHOLDERS 12 Table Of Contents
STAKEHOLDER FY21 INTERACTIONS
Government/Public Policy 
EngagementWe continued our engagements with the United States House and Senate AI 
Caucus, the Congressional Tech Staff Association, and key officials in the 
legislative and executive branches. 
We hosted a Public Sector Summit at our virtual GPU Technology Conference  
in October featuring representatives from several federal agencies and 
Congress. Among the 100 summit sessions , we featured a panel  with the 
chairman of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission on the promise 
of 5G powered by AI, as well as one focused on standards, investments, and 
regulatory actions around a national strategy on AI. 
We partnered  with the National Institutes of Health to develop AI models to 
help researchers study COVID-19 in chest CT scans in an effort to develop 
new tools to better understand, measure, and detect infections. 
We supported an employee who served as co-chair of Computing Technology 
Industry Association’s workforce subcommittee, where we supported policy 
development around skills-based training, apprenticeships, certifications, 
and workforce model development.
We participated in the development and advocacy of the Semiconductor 
Industry Association’s policy plan , which recommended substantial investment 
in the U.S. workforce and federal R&D programs. 
We engaged with the Consumer Technology Association and Information 
Technology and Innovation Foundation on AI policy development.
Nongovernmental Organizations We scored 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index 
for a sixth consecutive year.
We engaged with As You Sow, Investor Alliance for Human Rights, k now the 
Chain, World Benchmarking Alliance, and the World Economic Forum 2030 
Vision Government Framework.
Research/Ratings Organizations We remain on the following rankings/indexes: 3BL Media’s 100 Best Corporate 
Citizens, Barron’s Top 100 Most Sustainable Companies, Bloomberg Gender 
Equality Index, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Forbes’ Best Employers for 
Diversity, Forbes’ JUST 100 Companies, FTSE4Good, and Newsweek’s Most 
Responsible Companies.  
We were featured for the fifth year on Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to Work 
For at No. 12 and Glassdoor’s Best Places to Work at No. 2.
We debuted on Fortune’s Companies Changing the World list and Fortune’s 
Most Admired Companies list.
We were recognized in Corporate k nights’ 2021 Global 100 Most Sustainable 
Corporations and Wall Street Journal’s Most Sustainably Managed 
Companies in 2021.
We engaged with the following research organizations: Bloomberg, FTSE 
Russell, IDC, ISS, MSCI, Refinitiv, Sustainalytics, and Vigeo Eiris.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT PRIORITIES A ND S TAkEHOLDERS 13 Table Of Contents
STAKEHOLDER FY21 INTERACTIONS
Shareholders We participated in CDP for the 12th year and achieved an A- on our climate 
change and water security responses. 
We presented CSR issues to stockholders holding 32% in aggregate of our 
common stock during the company’s annual outreach meetings. Topics 
covered included: human capital management during COVID-19, climate 
change, diversity and inclusion at the company and board level, and board 
involvement in CSR. 
We scored No. 1 in several categories of Institutional Investor’s 2021  
All-American Executive Team Leaders survey, including top executives, top 
IR and ESG teams, and best communications response to COVID-19. We 
were No. 1 on Investor’s Business Daily’s Best ESG Companies List.
Suppliers We conducted an ongoing evaluation of our suppliers using RBA analysis tools.
See Supply Chain Management  to see the full range of activities we 
conducted, including 100% completion of risk assessment and self-assessment 
for all applicable suppliers, receipt of 10 Validated Assessment Program 
audits from high-spend suppliers, and reviewing audits of 55% of our 
strategic suppliers. 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT PRIORITIES A ND S TAkEHOLDERS 14 Table Of ContentsOur People
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we closed our nearly 60 offices around 
the world in March 2020 for all except essential workers. For essential labs and 
offices that remain open, we instituted frequent disinfection, temperature taking, 
and social distancing guidelines. We provided our employees with enhanced 
health coverage and reimbursement for certain work from home expenses, 
moved up our yearly performance review to put raises in the hands of employees 
sooner, and continue to support them in making their health, and their families’ 
health, a top priority. Additionally, our HR and IT teams assembled several 
resources for employees:
A comprehensive website with information on work 
guidelines, IT help, benefits, and how to engage in the 
company’s charitable mission to support local charities, 
neighbors, and small businesses;
A collection of resources and weekly webinars for 
employees and managers adjusting to working and 
leading remotely; 
A mental health webinar series on dealing with life 
challenges during a pandemic; and
Educational resources for employees’ children.
To give employees time to recharge after a demanding year, we had a company 
wide shut down for one week during the winter holidays. 
Our Supply Chain
In our supply chain, we focus on protecting worker rights while promoting business 
continuity. NVIDIA is a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and 
we follow their process to better understand the impact of COVID-19 on our 
supply chain. We partnered with a customer to survey several select suppliers to 
understand the impact on workers’ hours and wages. 
As a result of the workplace disruption, we have seen an increase in working hours 
this year and are supporting our suppliers through this process. The RBA and 
NVIDIA allow for certain exemptions to working hours requirements in the case of 
emergency or other unusual situations, and we have identified the virus outbreak, 
and subsequent government shutdown of activities across the globe, as such. OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19
2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT PRIORITIES A ND S TAkEHOLDERS 15 Table Of Contents
Strategic suppliers have communicated any reporting or auditing delays, including 
Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audits and International Organization for 
Standardization renewal audits. We continue to work with them and are applying 
guidance in accordance with the RBA, while remaining in conformance with its code 
of conduct. The RBA has also launched a Remote VAP audit option for qualifying 
facilities, and we will utilize that where possible to keep our suppliers on their 
normal audit cycle.
Our Technology
We have worked to fight COVID-19 with researchers, scientists, healthcare, and 
governments worldwide. Many AI startups in our NVIDIA Inception accelerator 
program have done innovative work in this area, including DarwinAI , which 
developed an AI model to detect COVID-19 in CT scans with 96% accuracy; 
Kinetica , which converted case location data into usable intelligence for faster 
decision-making; and Ouva , which created a touch-free hospital intelligence 
platform for monitoring patient safety. NVIDIA technology is also being used for 
contactless temperature screening applications  and spotlighting potentially 
contaminated surfaces . 
A team of 27 researchers led by Rommie Amaro at the University of California 
at San Diego won the Gordon Bell Prize for COVID-19 by using NVIDIA GPUs to 
create the largest, longest, and most accurate simulation of a coronavirus to 
date. The AI-assisted simulation  took a few months, compared to five years for 
developing the simulation for the flu virus.
Our Communities
Despite being physically distanced due to office closures, NVIDIANs around the 
world united in response to the pandemic. Together, employees and the company 
donated more than $16 million to support COVID-19-related efforts to date, 
reaching nonprofits in more than 40 countries. 
More than 3,500 NVIDIANs participated in a companywide challenge, Coming 
Together Against Coronavirus, which encouraged small actions to protect 
themselves and their communities, while containing the spread of the disease. 
Together, employees completed more than 23,000 simple activities, like purchasing 
gift cards from small businesses, thanking frontline healthcare workers, 
supporting local restaurants, and staying connected—and, as a result, unlocked a 
$250,000 donation to the World Health Organization. 
Our food service staff kept our kitchen facilities open to provide regular meals to 
3,800 families through a Silicon Valley nonprofit during FY21, and, in early FY22, 
expanded this program to our India sites. 
Our Continued Efforts
We are taking a cautious approach to reopening, putting the health and safety of 
our employees and their families first. Plans to reopen our offices are being made 
on a site-by-site basis. By early FY22, only a few of our offices have reopened, and 
those in other parts of the world are yet to be determined. 
We continue to work closely with our supply chain, developer, and community 
partners to support them through this time. Information about our efforts can be 
found on our webpage .$16M+ 
Raised by employees and the company 
for COVID-19 relief efforts2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOVERNANCE 16 Table Of Contents03
GOVERNANCE
BOARD GOVERNANCE
NVIDIA, including its Board of Directors, is committed to operating under sound 
principles of corporate governance. Our corporate governance structure ensures 
robust Board and management accountability and transparency to our stockholders 
and promotes good decision-making now and in the future. 
To ensure that long-term interests are being served, our Board oversees 
management performance. Our overarching code of conduct, financial team code of 
conduct, corporate governance policies, Board committee charters, certificate of 
incorporation, and bylaws form the framework for governance  at NVIDIA.
As of the end of FY21, we had 13 directors on our Board, 12 of whom (92%) were 
independent. The sole exception is Jensen Huang, who is also our founder, president, 
and chief executive officer. Our corporate governance policies permit the Board to 
designate either a chairperson of the Board or a lead independent director, which 
gives the Board flexibility in determining what is best for the company. Consistent 
with our non-hierarchical culture, NVIDIA’s Board has a lead director, Mark Perry, 
rather than a chairperson. In FY21, all directors attended at least 75% of meetings 
of the Board and committees on which they served.
Non-employee director compensation is reviewed by the Board’s Compensation 
Committee in consultation with a compensation consultant after an evaluation 
of peer group practices, and is ultimately approved by our Board. We design our 
named executive officer (NEO) compensation program to pay for performance and to 
attract and retain a high-caliber executive team. NEO pay is heavily weighted toward 
performance-based variable cash and long-term equity awards that are earned 
only if we achieve pre-established corporate financial metrics. Our compensation 
program requires executives to maintain meaningful stock ownership, and a 
clawback policy is in place for performance-based compensation.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Board composition 
 >Independence of committees and 
leadership 
 >Board and named executive officer 
compensation 
 >Board diversity2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOVERNANCE 17 Table Of ContentsGOVERNANCE SNAPSHOT
92%
of Directors are independent38%
of our Board is gender, racially,  
or ethnically diverse
23%
of our Board members are womenDeclassified Board 
Structure
and all Board members serve one-year terms
Annual Performance 
Evaluation
of Board and Board committeesPublic  
Disclosure
of director nomination process, proxy access, 
and approach to Board diversity
Majority Vote
practices have been adopted voluntarilyAnnual Board Outreach 
to Shareholders
on our business and ESG progress2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOVERNANCE 18 Table Of ContentsCSR Governance
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (NCGC) of our Board is  
responsible for reviewing and discussing with management our practices 
concerning environmental, social, and corporate governance. Our head of CSR 
reviews stakeholder inputs with and collects feedback on priorities from the 
NCGC each year. The priorities include issues that are of utmost importance to our 
stakeholders, such as climate change, human rights, and diversity and inclusion. 
Starting in FY22, NVIDIA management will periodically report to the NCGC about 
the company’s policies and practices regarding governmental relations, public 
policy, and related expenditures.
ETHICAL CONDUCT
We strive to achieve the highest standards of ethical conduct in all our business 
dealings. Our codes of conduct and policies guide how we conduct ourselves in our 
professional relationships toward our customers, partners, competitors, vendors, 
government regulators, shareholders, fellow employees, and the community at 
large. Our longstanding code of conduct  outlines our core values and establishes 
our expectations about the way we conduct business. This code applies to all our 
executive officers, directors, and employees, and we expect all third parties we 
do business with, including consultants, contractors, and other service providers, 
to act in a manner consistent with it. In addition, we have established a financial 
code of conduct  that applies to our executive staff, directors, and members of our 
finance, accounting, tax, and treasury departments. 
Our commitment to promoting a culture of integrity means that we aim to foster 
an environment where everyone is expected to act ethically and feel empowered 
to voice concerns without fear of retaliation. Any employee can confidentially and 
anonymously lodge a complaint about any accounting, internal control, auditing, 
code of conduct, conflict of interest, or other matters of concern using a corporate 
hotline , which is hosted by an independent third party. By using an external 
organization to host the hotline, we ensure that our employees feel secure their 
reports will be anonymous. We have a strict “no retaliation” policy regarding good 
faith reports of activities that run counter to our ethical expectations. In FY21, we 
expanded the availability of the hotline to supply chain workers and attendees of 
our annual developers conference.
All NVIDIA employees receive ethics and sexual harassment training. Upon hire 
and then every two years thereafter they also complete training in our code of 
conduct, which covers environmental and social responsibility issues. As of March 
2021, nearly 100% of employees had completed this training. 
Our longstanding commitment to doing business with integrity and ethics, and 
to preserving our ability to work with customers and governments, means 
avoiding all forms of corruption. Our anti-corruption practices specifically 
emphasize making ethical decisions, never engaging in bribery or insider trading, 
avoiding conflicts of interest, approaching competition ethically, complying 
with international trade regulations, promoting transparency, and maintaining 
accurate business records. To protect our company’s reputation, we have several 
policies related to these issues, and we expect employees to comply with them. 
Nearly 100% of employees who have frequent contact with customers, partners, 
and suppliers (such as those in sales, finance, and procurement) have completed 
additional global anti-bribery and anti-corruption training.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Policies, systems, processes, and 
performance relating to ethical 
operation 
 >Anti-corruption and anti-bribery, 
including an ethics hotline and 
whistleblower protection2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 19 Table Of Contents04
ECONOMIC
PRIORITY: INNOVATION
Innovation is at our core. Our invention of the GPU defined modern computer 
graphics and established us as the leader in visual computing. With our subsequent 
introduction of the CUDA programming model, we opened the parallel processing 
capabilities of the GPU for general purpose computing. We have since extended 
our research and development emphasis to the revolutionary field of AI. 
About 24% of our revenue in FY21 ($3.92 billion) funded R&D activities. In total, we 
have invested more than $24 billion in these efforts since our inception, yielding 
inventions that are essential to modern computing.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, software, 
algorithms, libraries, systems, and services to create unique value for the 
markets we serve. While the requirements of these end markets are diverse, 
we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs 
and software stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to 
support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying 
technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or 
by third-party developers and partners. The large and growing number of 
developers across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the 
value of our platform to our customers.
Our two reportable segments—Graphics and Compute & Networking—are based 
on a single underlying graphics architecture. We specialize in markets in which 
GPU-based visual computing and accelerated computing platforms can provide 
tremendous throughput for applications. Our platforms address four large 
markets where our expertise is critical: gaming, professional visualization, data 
center, and automotive.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Research and development of new 
products, technology, and operational 
practices 
 >Enabling distributed innovation 
through support of developers 
 >Intellectual property protection
NVIDIA NAMED FORBES’ MOST 
DISRUPTIVE AI INNOVATOR  
In 2020, NVIDIA had a series of 
breakthroughs that significantly 
reduced the amount of data needed 
in “generative adversarial networks,” 
a deep-learning method of creating 
images, sounds and videos that did 
not exist before. GAMING INNOVATION
NVIDIA ranked  no. 3 on Fast 
Company’s 10 Most Innovative Gaming 
Companies of 2021. 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 20 Table Of Contents
We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular 
innovations and technologies, based on such factors as:
 >The location in which our products are manufactured;
 >Our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; 
 >The degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully 
enforced in different jurisdictions; and
 >The commercial significance of our operations and our competitors’ operations 
in particular countries and regions.
We have also licensed technology from third parties and expect to continue to 
enter into such license agreements.
Our approach to innovation is described in more detail in our FY21 10-K, pp. 4-11 .
PRIORITY: BUSINESS MODEL  
AND COMPETITIVENESS 
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, software, 
algorithms, libraries, systems, and services to create unique value for the markets 
we serve. While the requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address 
them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and software 
stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to support 
several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by 
using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third party 
developers and partners. The large and growing number of developers across 
our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the value of our 
platform to our customers.
The market for our products is intensely competitive and is characterized by 
rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. We believe that the 
principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product 
offerings, access to customers and partners and distribution channels, software 
support, conformity to industry standard APIs, manufacturing capabilities, 
processor pricing, and total system costs. We believe that our ability to remain 
competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and 
functions that customers and partners will demand and whether we are able to 
deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and 
at competitive prices. We expect competition to increase from both existing 
competitors and new market entrants with products that may be lower priced 
than ours or may provide better performance or additional features not provided 
by our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances 
among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share.
CHANGING THE WORLD 
NVIDIA was featured in Fortune’s 
Change the World list, which 
recognizes companies leveraging 
their core business strategy to have a 
positive impact on humanity. NVIDIA 
GPUs enable  scientists to use images 
like the one above to virtually screen 
more than a billion drug-candidate 
compounds and molecules in 24 
hours—a process that would take five 
to 10 years of “wet lab” work.
WHAT IT COVERS: 
 > Market and global competitiveness, 
including business model, market 
leadership, and financial success 
 >Issues impacting NVIDIA’s fair access 
to the market 
 >Compliance with laws and regulations2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 21 Table Of ContentsOur key strategies that shape our overall business approach include:
 >Advancing the NVIDIA accelerated computing platform;
 >Extending our technology and platform leadership in AI;
 >Extending our technology and platform leadership in visual computing;
 >Advancing the leading autonomous vehicle platform; and
 >Leveraging our intellectual property.
Our success depends on our ability to identify emerging industry changes and 
to develop new (or enhance our existing) products, services, and technologies 
that meet the evolving needs of these markets. Such activities may require 
considerable technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments. 
We devote significant resources to the development of technologies and business 
offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, such as the 
automotive and data center markets, which presents additional risks to our 
business. We also must continue to scale our networking business following the 
Mellanox acquisition by leveraging our joint product capabilities and continuing 
to effectively integrate company processes. We must also continue to develop the 
infrastructure needed to scale our business in these areas, including customer 
service and support, e-commerce and intellectual property licensing capabilities. 
If we do not continue to evolve our business, including by developing market 
specific technologies, managing the social and environmental impact of our 
products and technologies, expanding the ecosystem for our current and future 
products and technologies, and monetizing and expanding our business in various 
areas, our financial results could be negatively impacted. 
We also must meet customer safety and compliance standards, which are 
subject to change. Additionally, we continue to make considerable investments in 
research and development, which may not produce significant revenue for several 
years, if at all. If our investments are unsuccessful and we fail to develop new 
products, services and technologies, or if we focus on technologies that do not 
become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of 
operations could be adversely affected. 
We cannot assure that our strategic direction will result in innovative products 
and technologies that provide value to our customers, partners and, ultimately, 
our shareholders. If we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets 
and emerging technology trends, or if we do not appropriately adapt that strategy 
as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market 
opportunities, our business will be harmed.
We outline our response to market competitiveness in the Business Strategies 
section of our FY21 10-K, pp. 8-14 .  FORTUNE’S MOST ADMIRED 
COMPANIES       
NVIDIA ranked first in the 
semiconductor category on Fortune 
magazine’s list of the World’s Most 
Admired Companies .2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 22 Table Of ContentsPRIORITY: CYBERSECURITY AND  
DATA PRIVACY
Our information security practices include the measures we design to protect 
networks, computers, programs, and data, as well as NVIDIA’s products and the 
privacy of our customers’ and employees’ data, from unauthorized access or 
attack. As we become aware of more frequent high-profile security breaches in 
business and government, and as new dangers arise, we remain committed to 
implementing appropriate protections for any personal information we collect or 
that our users share with us. 
Our efforts are managed by a global team of cybersecurity, IT, engineering, 
operations, and legal experts. A cybersecurity committee, which meets monthly 
and is driven by executive-level leaders, reviews metrics, and evaluates 
emerging threats. To ensure a robust breadth of knowledge, the team consults 
with external parties, such as computer security firms and those with risk 
management and governance expertise. 
We address cybersecurity scenarios in our resilience planning, document them 
through business continuity plans, and test the reliability of our products and our 
ability to respond to threats through attack simulations. We follow the processes 
outlined in frameworks such as the ISO 27001 for Information Security Standards. 
Against the backdrop of frequent changes and fresh knowledge, we continually 
evaluate and evolve our security measures. In the event of a cybersecurity 
issue, we’ve prescribed a set of actions for teams to initiate that will help us to 
determine the type and rigorousness of our response.  
The cybersecurity committee presents an annual update and provides education 
to NVIDIA’s Board of Directors throughout the year. The team updates the Audit 
Committee upon request. 
Data Privacy
We continuously hone our cybersecurity and data privacy trainings and policies to 
respond to new requirements in global privacy laws. Our relationship with our 
colleagues, customers, and business partners is based upon mutual trust. We are 
committed to maintaining this trust by protecting the information we hold from 
inappropriate use, unauthorized access, loss, and accidental destruction. 
Information security/cybersecurity awareness training is available on demand to 
all employees, and we hold regular live trainings. Our IT team has implemented 
extensive training internally on the risks of phishing scam emails. This includes 
sending simulated “attack” emails to all employees to test their awareness. The 
team provides further awareness training to departments that have the most 
inadequate response to the simulation exercise.
Product Security
NVIDIA takes security concerns seriously and works to evaluate and address them 
quickly. When a security concern is reported, NVIDIA commits the appropriate 
resources to analyze, validate, and provide corrective actions to address the issue. 
NVIDIA Security Bulletins and Notices are published on our website .WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Technologies, processes, and 
practices designed to protect 
networks, computers, programs, and 
data from cyberattacks 
 >Cybersecurity safeguards built into 
product design, implementation, and 
production 
 >Customer, employee, and business 
data privacy 
 >Compliance with cybersecurity and 
data protection laws
ISO 27001 INFORMATION 
SECURITY STANDARD
Our processes are aligning with 
ISO 27001. We completed a gap 
assessment and expect to be certified 
in 2022. 
Our networking business operations 
are ISO 27001 certified.
NVIDIA IS GOVERNED BY THE 
FOLLOWING PRIVACY POLICIES:
 >Our customer-facing NVIDIA 
Privacy Policy , which 
incorporates both a Cookie Policy  
and a Kids Privacy Policy ;
 >a collection of internal, corporate 
data privacy policies, including an 
Employee Privacy Policy; 
 >and a Job Candidate Privacy Policy.
NVIDIA privacy policies are consistent 
with GDPR principles and are applied 
globally.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 23 Table Of Contents
The NVIDIA Product Security Incident Response Team (PSIRT) goal is to minimize 
customers’ risk associated with security vulnerabilities by providing timely 
information, guidance, and remediation of vulnerabilities in our products and 
services. NVIDIA PSIRT is a global team that manages the receipt, investigation, 
internal coordination, remediation, and disclosure of security vulnerability 
information related to NVIDIA products and services. We participate  in the global 
Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams (FIRST.org), actively contribute 
to FIRST.org Special Interest Groups (SIGs) to make improvements to PSIRT 
processes, and share process knowledge with others so they may implement this 
type of notification  and security work within their own organizations.
FIRST.ORG ACTIVITIES
NVIDIA’s Shawn Richardson sits on the Board of Directors for FIRST.org for the 
2020-2022 term. Her oversight responsibilities include diversity and inclusion 
initiatives and Liaison for SIGs to collaborate, share ideas, and occasionally produce 
training, standards, frameworks, and documentation.   
We also participate in MITRE’s Cybersecurity and Vulnerability Exposure Number  
Authority Coordination Working Group. In FY21, we partnered with third-party  
research institutions and corporate peers to extend the MITRE ATT&C k 
framework for AI to advance the industry’s security and its response to new and 
upcoming threats. 
PRIORITY: TRADE ISSUES
Our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by 
third parties located outside of the United States. Revenue from sales outside of 
the United States accounted for 81% of total revenue for FY21, 92% for FY20 and 
87% for FY19. As of January 31, 2021, approximately 53% of our employees were 
located outside of the United States. Additionally, our worldwide business 
activities are subject to various laws, rules, and regulations of the United Sates 
as well as of foreign governments.
The global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, 
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, 
and results of operations, including international economic and political conditions 
and other political tensions between countries in which we do business; 
unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; 
and exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, 
including deemed export restrictions, tariffs, quotas, and other trade barriers 
and restrictions. 
NVIDIA’s Global Trade Compliance Team helps ensure that applicable international  
trade laws are followed when NVIDIA’s products are moved or sold internationally. 
With local presence in the U.S., APAC and EMEA, team members serve as subject 
matter experts on the range of global trade issues that impact our business. The 
team helps clear NVIDIA’s international shipments, performs restricted party 
screening, advises on export license restrictions, sets policies and procedures, 
and obtains import or export licenses when required. They also stay current on 
new trade regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate and ensures NVIDIA 
has processes in place to comply with the new regulations. 
For an overview of risks related to global trade issues, see our FY21 10-K, pp. 20-22 .WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Systems for managing export 
controls, import duties, quotas, trade 
barriers and restrictions 
 >Impacts associated with changing 
trade decisions such as pricing, 
regulations, or supply chain
 >Compliance with laws, regulations, 
and agreements governing 
international trade2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 24 Table Of ContentsBUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT
Business continuity management (BCM) focuses on protecting our core values . 
Our philosophy of BCM is to identify realistic threats and their potential impact 
to our core values and business operations and to design a formal framework 
for responding. 
We believe that resilience can be achieved by embedding redundancy and diversity 
into our response framework. A BCM steering committee of four executives is 
supported by several business leaders across the following functions: Corporate 
Communications, Cybersecurity, Facilities, Finance, Global Security, Human 
Resources, Information Technology, and Operations. Each function has a plan to 
identify and address potential risks. 
These efforts are supported by robust infrastructure, systems, policies, and 
procedures and are designed to mitigate risk and protect the safety and trust of 
our employees and customers when unexpected events such as a cyberattack, 
business disruption, or natural disaster occur. 
In response to COVID-19, we closed our worldwide offices in March 2020 to 
protect our employees and prevent further spread. With access to our sites 
restricted to essential workers, we implemented numerous safety protocols and 
provided resources for employees to work remotely. We continue to prioritize the 
health and safety of our employees through a variety of efforts, detailed in 
COVID-19 Response  and Employee Health and Safety .
BCM is critical to minimizing financial and reputational impacts. By anticipating 
the likelihood of severe events, we can mitigate these risks and ensure that the 
company does not endure unnecessary damages.
Climate Risk
Recognizing the implications of climate change for our business and the increased 
relevance of climate risk to our investors, we conducted an initial climate risk 
scenario analysis in FY21 to consider how resilient our business strategy is in the 
face of increasing temperatures.
Working with a consulting partner, we assembled a cross-functional stakeholder 
group to oversee our scenario analysis. We identified our global data center 
and lab locations to be of significant strategic relevance for our business and 
modeled the potential outcomes under two warming scenarios, Representative 
Concentration Pathway (RCP) 4.5 and RCP 8.5. We found that under a lower 2°C 
warming scenario (RCP 4.5), the extent to which comfort cooling will be needed in 
our current data centers and labs is projected to be 60% higher by 2030 and 100% 
higher by 2050, relative to the 20-year baseline from 1986-2005. Increases in 
comfort cooling needs are substantially higher under the RCP 8.5 scenario. 
While this could result in some increases in energy use to adequately cool our 
facilities, for data centers in particular, various factors mitigate the potential risk 
of system or server failure for NVIDIA. These factors include the efforts of our 
teams to consider projected future climatic conditions as they specify new data 
centers, the relatively broad temperature ranges our data center infrastructure 
can handle, and the redundancy built into modern data center cooling systems. 
This is informative for the design, planning, and operation of our workplaces for 
future employee comfort, and it signals potential increases in cooling-related 
energy consumption and cost.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Systems, infrastructure, policies, 
and procedures to ensure business 
continuity and operational resilience
 > Processes to address operational 
interruptions due to external global 
circumstances
NVIDIA BCM PROGRAM
CORE
VALUESSTEERING
COMMITTEE
BCM TEAMIDENTIFY
RESPOND
RECOVER2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 25 Table Of ContentsWe are considering the results of this scenario analysis in our strategic planning 
decisions to mitigate the operational and capital cost risks of a warmer climate. 
See Environmental  section of this report for more actions we are taking against 
climate change.
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT
Public policy engagement enables us to affect government action and provide 
thought leadership to global governments on issues that directly affect our 
business. It’s also a platform for educating policymakers through demonstrations 
of our technology, amplifying our work in targeted areas, and collaborating with 
various organizations on issues of shared interest. We focus our public policy 
activities in AI specifically to support governmental efforts to increase investment 
in core AI research and support workforce development around AI by providing 
educational resources to officials and their advisors. 
We don’t make contributions of any kind, such as money, employee time, goods 
or services, or employee expense reimbursements to political parties or 
candidates. This includes contributions through intermediary organizations, such 
as political action committees or lobbyists, campaign funds, or trade or industry 
associations. We don’t have a political action committee and don’t engage in 
independent expenditures or electioneering communications as defined by law.
We engage in lobbying for issues of importance to our business, customers, 
stockholders, and employees through specifically authorized and legally 
compliant lobbying activities. All lobbying activities require the prior approval of 
NVIDIA Government Relations and Legal. Where required by law, we file lobbying 
disclosure reports. In FY21, we did not perform lobbying activities or expend 
resources that required registration under the Lobbying Disclosure Act. More 
information about our political contributions and expenditures can be found on 
our website .
AI Research and Standards
In FY21, we participated in the development and advocacy of the Semiconductor 
Industry Association’s policy plan , which recommended substantial investment in 
the U.S. workforce and federal R&D programs. 
As part of GTC, we brought together a leading group of policymakers and analysts 
to discuss the United States’ national strategy regarding AI, with a specific focus 
on standards, investments, and potential regulatory actions.
STRATEGIES FOR FEDERAL AI EFFORTS AT GTC 
Leaders from dozens of organizations, including the U.S. Department of Defense, 
the Federal Communication Commission, Booz Allen Hamilton, Lockheed Martin, 
NASA, RAND Corporation, Carnegie Mellon and Stanford Universities, participated  
in approximately 100 sessions that were part of GTC’s Public Sector Summit, held 
virtually in October 2020.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 > Participation through industry 
organizations 
 >Engagement with policymakers2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 26 Table Of ContentsWorkforce Development
In FY21, we served as the co-chair of Computing Technology Industry 
Association’s workforce subcommittee, where we support policy development 
around skills-based training, apprenticeships, and certifications. As part of these 
efforts, we promoted a workforce development model that can be applied broadly 
to benefit citizens of any state or community. To benefit the policy-making 
process, we share our experiences with our Deep Learning Institute  and the 
partnerships we’ve formed with NGOs and universities nationwide.
AI Education
We provide subject-matter experts to educate government officials and their 
policy advisors on AI technology, and offer insights into AI research and 
development. We enhance our public policy reach through participation in groups  
such as the Consumer Technology Association, Entertainment Software 
Association, and the Semiconductor Industry Association, among others. 
Over the past year, we demonstrated to policy experts how AI capabilities can 
contribute to better responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2020, we joined 
the COVID-19 High Performance Computing Consortium , a collaboration with 
the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, the U.S. Department of 
Energy, several technology companies, and national labs. The effort has driven 
progress in understanding COVID-19 and creating treatments and vaccines.
Researchers at NVIDIA also partnered  with the National Institutes of Health to 
develop AI models to help researchers study COVID-19 in chest CT scans in an 
effort to develop new tools to better understand, measure, and detect infections.LEADING THINKERS IN AI 
CONVERGE AT GTC 
A bipartisan panel of key members of 
Congress on AI joined Axios reporter 
Erica Pandey for our AI for America  
panel to explore their strategies. 
Representatives Robin k elly of 
Illinois, Will Hurd of Texas, and Jerry 
McNerney of California discussed 
the immense opportunities of AI, 
as well as challenges they see as 
policymakers.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 27 Table Of ContentsCUSTOMER RELATIONS
Our customers include both businesses and individual consumers. We view our  
commitment to positive customer relations in terms of the role we play as a  
responsible supplier, our commitment to our reseller partners and their 
customers, and to our direct customers. 
We support customers through a comprehensive support site  and several 
NVIDIA-hosted product forums  and communities . Our customer service team  
tracks interactions with consumers as they occur and shares bi-weekly satisfaction 
reports internally. We measure customer satisfaction in several ways, including 
customer satisfaction rate, percentage of support incidents filed, closed incident 
survey response rate, and referral rate. We use these metrics to help promote 
experiences that satisfy and delight our customers.  
Our support organization has taken steps to dramatically reduce the time it takes 
for our software team to incorporate customer feedback, enabling technicians to 
respond quickly and increase customer satisfaction. We also use data gathered 
from our customer forums to give our research and development organizations 
feedback about what’s working and what improvements our customers want. 
NVIDIA protects customer data and honors their choices in compliance with GDPR. 
More information can be found here  about our privacy policy.
Developer Education
We support developers who want to create innovative applications with our 
products. We give developers diverse resources, including courses  in parallel 
programming; enhancement tools for debugging, performance, and testing; 
access to highly skilled engineers and specialists who provide custom services 
and co-design industry-specific applications; and financial support to university 
researchers in various scientific disciplines. Our GPU Technology Conference  
advances global awareness of accelerated computing, computer graphics, high 
performance computing, AI, and deep learning. 
Customer Requests 
Our customers include some of the world’s largest electronics, consumer brand, 
and automotive companies. Consequently, we’ve integrated the standards 
outlined in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct covering 
labor, environment, health and safety, ethics, and management systems 
throughout our global operations. We use these standards as our management 
approach for our supply chain. 
Our customer support organization is on the front line of communications with 
our national and international partners, working with their engineering teams as 
they test NVIDIA products in their systems and devices. Inquiries from our 
original equipment manufacturer partners have increased in line with our focus on 
supplier responsibility and environmental sustainability. Requests for information 
have predominantly related to conflict minerals, environmental compliance, 
quality, cybersecurity, consumer satisfaction, and ethics. WHAT IT COVERS:
 >Customer satisfaction 
 >Customer relationship management
GPU TECHNOLOGY 
CONFERENCE
GTC is a global conference series 
providing training, insights, and direct 
access to experts on the hottest 
topics in computing today. Thousands 
of researchers and professionals 
attend to learn the latest on the 
most dynamic topics related to high 
performance computing, AI, and 
deep learning. 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ECONOMIC 28 Table Of ContentsTo manage these inquiries and requests, we employ quarterly business reviews 
with key customers, and partner with them on various initiatives through the 
RBA. Some customers assign points on their scorecards to environmental, social, 
and governance performance. Customers who are RBA members monitor our 
performance through tools provided by that organization, such as self-assessment 
questionnaires, Validated Assessment Program, and tracking tools for carbon, 
water, and waste. We also participate in the RBA environmental sustainability 
workgroup and complete the online environmental survey on carbon, water, 
and waste. 
In addition to the RBA Environmental Survey, we participate in the CDP climate 
change and water surveys each year. Participants are scored based on their 
understanding and management of their business risks, opportunities, and 
impacts related to climate change and water resources. In 2020 we scored an 
A- on both surveys. See our 2020 CDP response .
Full Material Disclosure
We maintain Full Material Disclosures (FMD) for our chip designs but not all 
system products. NVIDIA is required to report on material information through 
various platforms, including Substances of Concern in Products and International 
Material Data System for automotive. We have done the preliminary work to 
expand our FMD program to all products and aim to implement it in FY22.
EPEAT
The EPEAT program independently verifies the environmental impact of electronic 
products and is used by thousands of private and public institutional purchasers 
around the world to make sustainable IT procurement decisions. All NVIDIA GPUs 
support EPEAT conformance, and we provide information to customers seeking to 
register their products with the program. ISO 9001
For partners that embed our 
hardware in their products, quality 
is monitored through ISO 9001 
certification . Read more in Product 
Quality .2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 29 Table Of Contents05
SOCIAL
PRIORITY: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT  
AND PRODUCT QUALITY 
We hold ourselves and our suppliers to the highest standards of behavior. We 
engage suppliers that share our values and closely manage our supply chain 
to deliver innovative products that satisfy our customers’ expectations in a 
socially and environmentally conscious manner. In our supply chain, we focus on 
protecting worker rights while promoting business continuity. Read more about 
the pandemic and our suppliers in Our Response to COVID-19 .
Supply Chain Management
We have been Responsible Business Alliance  (RBA) members since 2007 and 
in 2018 were accepted as Full Member. From the beginning, we adopted the 
RBA Code of Conduct and integrated its elements into our processes, including 
auditing strategic suppliers and conducting internal assessments to confirm that 
we are addressing all aspects of responsible supply chain management.
We do not directly manufacture the semiconductor wafers or printed circuit boards 
used in our products, nor do we manufacture our branded devices. Instead, we 
partner with world-class suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, 
including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing, and packaging. We also contract 
with manufacturers to build, test, and distribute our branded devices.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and Samsung 
manufacture our semiconductor wafers. Our two main contract manufacturers 
for company- or partner-branded devices are Foxconn and BYD. Foxconn, 
Samsung, and TSMC are all RBA members. WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Policies and practices governing 
overall supply chain management
 >Policies and practices governing 
management of environmental and 
social impacts in the supply chain 
 >Supplier audits to ensure compliance 
with standards and requirements 
 >Impacts to or disruption of production
 >Supply chain transparency and 
disclosure 
 >Policies and practices governing 
product quality2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 30 Table Of Contents
All our suppliers are required to comply with NVIDIA’s code of conduct, our CSR 
Directive, and our policies related to human rights. They’re required to sign an 
“Agreement for Manufacturer Environmental Compliance,” which includes all 
relevant product regulatory compliance standards, social compliance standards, 
chemical management, and the RBA Code. We also encourage them to use the 
RBA Code as a platform to go above and beyond compliance. 
Our assessment process involves using the RBA online system to evaluate 
existing and potential new suppliers against product compliance industry 
standards, social and environmental criteria, conflict minerals, the RBA Code, 
and NVIDIA’s code of conduct.
Strategic suppliers include those who produce or handle NVIDIA production 
material, those for whom we closely manage quality requirements (non-critical 
suppliers), those who design our branded products, and those we are required to 
work with based on customer agreements.
For strategic suppliers, agreements are deployed and tracked through a 
quarterly business review (QBR) process to make certain that they uphold our 
requirements. Business allocation decisions are influenced by QBR performance. 
Each quarter, overall supplier assessment is reviewed by product category and 
performance is ranked. Five of 100 QBR points are allocated to CSR issues, and 
requirements vary by quarter.  
In FY20, we reviewed all strategic suppliers against NVIDIA cybersecurity 
requirements, and in FY21, we performed a more in-depth assessment of higher 
risk suppliers. We looked at our supplier’s conformance to ISO 27001, ISO 28001, 
and C-TPAT standards, and evaluated them for additional information, product, 
and physical security requirements. Depending on the results of the assessment, 
we required suppliers to provide additional evidence of conformance or, if gaps 
were discovered, to implement an improvement plan. Moving forward, we plan to 
perform periodic assessments and continuous monitoring.
Supplier Environmental Management
Emissions are created at every stage of our product lifecycle, extending to our 
customers’ use and disposal of our products. Since 2014, we have required our 
key manufacturing suppliers to report their energy usage, greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions data, and reduction goals and objectives. 
We also require these suppliers to have their GHG emissions verified by a third 
party. We use this supplier data to better understand the GHG emissions footprint 
of our product manufacturing and to calculate the allocation of carbon emissions 
from tier 1 suppliers that are attributable to our customers. We track suppliers’ 
annual GHG and carbon emissions through the CDP and RBA Environmental 
Survey. We calculate carbon, water, and waste data for all silicon manufacturers 
and systems contract manufacturers to determine carbon emissions and water 
consumption per product and per financial outlay. 
In FY21, we surveyed our suppliers to better understand the renewable energy 
performance and capability of our manufacturing supply chain.SUPPLIER COMPLIANCE
NVIDIA manufacturing suppliers must 
comply with the following: 
 >RBA’s Code of Conduct
 >NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct
 >NVIDIA’s Combatting Trafficking in 
Persons Policy 
 >NVIDIA’s Conflict Minerals Policy
 >EU RoHS
 >EU REACH 
 >EU End of Life Vehicles 
 >Halogen Free/Low Halogen
 >ISO 14001:2015 
 >ISO 45001 (replacing OHSAS 18001 
/GB/T 28001-2011 in China)2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 31 Table Of Contents
Supply Chain Performance
FY21 RBA MEMBER COMPLIANCE
 
COMPLIANCE ELEMENT NVIDIA’S 
REQUIREMENTNVIDIA PERFORMANCE
Risk assessment on all strategic 
suppliers100% 100%
Self-assessment questionnaires (SAQs) 
completed by suppliers in the top 80% 
of NVIDIA spending100% 100%
NVIDIA’s SAQ review determined that there were no 
suppliers rated as high risk in our top spending area.
Validated assessment program 
(VAP) audits among 25% of high-risk 
suppliers0% (due to lack 
of high-risk 
suppliers from 
SAQ)We audit suppliers even if their SAQ score comes back 
as low risk.
We require VAP audits to validate supplier SAQs. This 
process revealed one strategic supplier as high risk. 
We work with high- and moderate-risk suppliers to 
review their CAPs and complete a Closure Audit when 
necessary.
We reviewed VAP audits in FY21 on 55% of our strategic 
suppliers, bringing total audits in the past two years to 
95%. 
We reviewed an additional 10 VAP audits from suppliers 
we paid more than $1 million in FY21. 
Corrective action plans (CAPs) 0% (due to lack 
of high-risk 
suppliers)We engaged 13 suppliers on their CAPs from the FY21 
auditing season. Common findings include issues 
related to occupational safety, emergency preparedness, 
working hours, freely chosen employment, and wages 
and benefits.
We continue monitoring to ensure that suppliers 
demonstrate effective processes to ensure compliance. 
Specific actions on non-compliance issues vary 
depending on the type of finding and supplier.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 32 Table Of Contents
FY21 RBA CODE OF CONDUCT PERFORMANCE
RBA CODE 
ELEMENTNVIDIA AS SUPPLIER NVIDIA AS CUSTOMER
Labor NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct contains 
strict requirements around human 
rights.
We are in alignment with the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights, the ILO Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work, and the UN Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
Relevant NVIDIA employees took 
several RBA Learning Academy 
courses.
We participated in the RBA’s 
Responsible Labor Initiative.We evaluated all contract manufacturers and direct  
material suppliers on geographic location, manufacturing  
processes, past supplier environmental responsibility 
performance, and public reports.
We tracked supplier working hours through VAP, CAPs, 
or RBA working hours templates.
We worked with suppliers to ensure their compliance 
with the principles of zero hiring fees and freely chosen 
employment.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to 11 suppliers: 
Hours of Work, Working Hours Recording System, 
Working Hours Management System, The Hiring 
Process, Recruitment and Selection, Hiring and 
Working with Migrant Workers, Wages and Benefits, 
Creating Motivating Wage Systems, and Improving Your 
Dormitories.
Health and Safety We focused on keeping our campuses 
safe and supporting our employees 
through the COVID-19 pandemic. 
We updated environmental, health, 
safety, and energy policies.We closed CAPs covering all health and safety issues.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to 11 suppliers: 
Effective H&S Systems, Fire Safety, and Managing Air 
Emissions.
Ethics We continued membership in the 
Responsible Minerals Initiative and 
participated in its work groups on 
due-diligence data collection, and 
smelter engagement.We engaged 100% of suppliers to collect smelter data for 
our conflict minerals program.
We engaged strategic suppliers to collect cobalt smelter 
data.
We continued evaluation of smelter metrics for the 
annual SEC conflict minerals reporting requirement.
Environmental We participated in the CDP Supply 
Chain program.
We completed the RBA online 
environmental survey on carbon, water, 
and waste. 
We participated in the RBA environmental 
sustainability work group. We calculated carbon, water, and waste data of all silicon 
manufacturers and systems contract manufacturers to 
determine carbon emissions and water consumption per 
product and per financial outlay.
We required compliance with environmental standards.
We reviewed suppliers’ environmental improvement 
plans for ISO 14001 alignment.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to 11 suppliers: 
Environmental Protection, Managing Energy and 
GHG Emissions, Water and Wastewater Management, 
Resolving Wastewater Treatment Issues, and Managing 
Waste.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 33 Table Of ContentsRBA CODE 
ELEMENTNVIDIA AS SUPPLIER NVIDIA AS CUSTOMER
Management 
SystemsWe participated in a VAP work group.
We continued to evaluate our 
performance for the RBA Full 
membership tier. We conducted quarterly business reviews of suppliers.
We assessed compliance with the updated RBA Code 
with respect to labor fees and freedom of association.
We implemented a performance-based award system 
for strategic suppliers through the QBR process.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to 11 suppliers: 
Understanding Supply Chain Responsibility, Industry 
Standards, Responsible Supply Chain Management (for 
Factory Management), Supply Chain CSR Monitoring, and 
Using k PIs.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 34 Table Of Contents
Human Rights
We are committed to upholding the rights of workers throughout our supply chain 
and to treating everyone with dignity and respect. In alignment with the RBA Code, 
we comply with the key principles for worker protection outlined in the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights: 
 >No forced, bonded (including debt bondage) or indentured labor, involuntary or 
exploitative prison labor, slavery, or trafficking of persons. 
 >No unreasonable restrictions on workers’ freedom of movement in the facility 
or unreasonable restrictions on entering or exiting company-provided facilities. 
 >Workers must be provided with a written employment agreement in their native 
language that contains a description of terms and conditions of employment. 
 >All work must be voluntary, and workers may leave work at any time or 
terminate their employment. 
 >Employers and agents may not hold or otherwise destroy, conceal, confiscate, 
or deny access by employees to their identity or immigration documents.
 >Workers shall not be required to pay employers’ or agents’ recruitment fees 
or other related fees for their employment; any such fees shall be repaid to the 
worker. 
 >Child labor is not to be used in any stage of manufacturing.
Freely chosen employment is a significant 
issue that many supply chains face. When 
violations are discovered, we require 
suppliers to return hiring fees to workers.
We also comply with the RBA’s guidance regarding stakeholder grievances related 
to our social and environmental performance. We use the RBA Self-Assessment 
Questionnaire and VAP Audit Program to validate that our suppliers have proper 
grievance mechanisms in place and that employees are trained to use these 
methods. We manage any corrective actions related to grievance mechanisms 
through the RBA-Online Corrective Action Plan process.
In addition to supporting and aligning with the RBA code regarding freely chosen 
labor, we follow the legal requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulation 
and U k Modern Slavery Act 2015. We track issues through the RBA Validated 
Assessment Program and work directly with suppliers to implement any 
corrective actions. Anyone can confidentially and anonymously report a concern 
about supply chain or human rights issues using a corporate hotline, which is 
hosted by an independent third party. When violations are discovered, we require 
suppliers to return hiring fees to workers. Policies related to working conditions 
can be found on our website . Freely Chosen Employment Is A 
Significant Issue That Many Supply 
Chains Face. When Violations Are 
Discovered, We Require Suppliers To 
Return Hiring Fees To Workers. 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 35 Table Of Contents
Materials Sourcing
We support, contribute to, and rely on industry-wide efforts to validate the 
source of minerals used in our products, ensuring that they come from socially 
responsible sources and do not contribute to human conflict. Our goal is to use 
only conflict-free gold, tantalum, tungsten, and tin in our products. We share an 
annual update in our Conflict Minerals Report .
We’re a member of the Public Private Alliance (PPA) for Responsible Minerals 
Trade, and the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). The PPA provides funding 
and coordination support to organizations working within the Democratic 
Republic of Congo and adjacent countries to develop verifiable conflict-free supply 
chains; align due diligence programs and practices; encourage responsible 
sourcing from the region; promote transparency; and bolster in-region civil 
society and governmental capacity. We support these on-the-ground programs 
aimed at improving transparency for responsible sourcing and reducing human 
rights risks, including forced labor. Our due diligence program regarding conflict 
materials conforms in all material respects with the framework recommended 
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). 
Our Conflict Minerals Policy , sourcing goals, and the steps we take to monitor 
our supply chain for conflict minerals is framed around the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and 
High-Risk Areas. This guidance provides detailed recommendations to help 
companies respect human rights and avoid contributing to conflict through their 
mineral purchasing decisions and practices.
Additionally, we participate in various RMI work groups and align our program 
with the organization’s tracking of additional minerals and materials and with 
geographic areas of high concern. We monitor additional legal requirements, 
including the EU Conflict Minerals Regulations, to determine any future 
requirements for conflict materials and high-risk regions of the world. 
In FY20, as the RMI program matured, we began to investigate cobalt in our supply 
chain. In FY21 we sent surveys to 100% of our suppliers with approximately a 90% 
response rate. We’ve reported the initial results to customers, as requested. The 
cobalt program through the RMI is still new and the majority of cobalt refiners in 
the world have yet to be identified and audited. As the program matures, our goal 
is to only source from conflict-free cobalt refiners.
Product Quality
For partners that embed our hardware in their products, quality is monitored 
through ISO 9001 certification. We engage with strategic suppliers through QBRs 
and use these reviews to influence business allocation decisions. We use a 
comprehensive quality management process with the goal of exceeding our 
customers’ expectations. Cross-functional teams manage all aspects of product 
quality. Customer Quality Engineering provides direct customer support for all 
quality-related issues and facilitates the gathering of customer failure information, 
customer-observed failure rates, and RMA processing. Product Quality Engineering 
uses the Eight Discipline (8D) methodology to direct root cause failure analysis 
and corrective actions. As part of the continuous improvement process, 
recommended design enhancements are brought to the design engineering teams 
for incorporation into next-generation products.ISO 9001 
NVIDIA is certified  to ISO 9001 and has 
been issued a “letter of conformance” 
to the IATF 16949 automotive quality 
standard.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 36 Table Of ContentsPRIORITY: EMPLOYEE HEALTH  
AND SAFETY
Our employees’ ability to perform their jobs well depends on their physical and 
mental health and their safety and security. Our integrated programs actively 
support these fundamental needs. 
Health and Wellness 
We support our employees in making their health and their families’ health a 
top priority, offering programs throughout the year to assist with their personal 
wellness, including health analysis, skin cancer screening, and hereditary 
cancer screening. 
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we closed our nearly 60 offices around 
the world in March 2020. With so many of our employees working remotely for 
an extended period, we enhanced the resources we provide to support health 
and wellness at home. We added a financial stipend toward ergonomically 
designed workstation furniture and IT peripherals for home working, offer regular 
well-being educational events, virtual fitness and meditation sessions, and even 
a weekly story time for our working families with young children at home. In the 
United States, we’ve worked with our healthcare insurance providers to cover 
any out-of-pocket costs related to COVID-19 through calendar year 2021 for our 
employees and all covered dependents.  
For essential labs and offices that remain open, we have instituted frequent 
COVID-19 prevention measures, including regular disinfection, strict access 
control (limited to essential onsite workers only), temperature taking, and strong 
social distancing guidelines. See COVID-19 Response  for more about our actions 
during the pandemic.
Safety
Our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) team oversees workplace conditions 
for NVIDIANs globally. Team members provide guidance to ensure that facilities 
meet or exceed local safety requirements, promote safe work practices, and 
support compliance with applicable health and safety legislation and policies 
through trainings, communications, and audits. Our global EHS management 
framework includes: 
 >A network of site safety officers who provide local EHS accountability. 
 >Documented, globally applicable programs on key topics, including 
contractor management, ladder safety, ergonomics, vehicle safety, and 
chemical management.
 >External EHS audits and internal EHS inspections of our owned and leased 
offices. 
keeping our employees safe requires planning for emergencies. Our volunteer 
emergency response teams include more than 500 employees around the world. 
These volunteers assist with evacuation drills and may receive training in basic 
first aid, CPR, AED, or fire extinguisher use in addition to emergency preparedness 
that will enable them to rapidly respond in an emergency or disaster.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Occupational health and safety 
performance and policies 
 >Adherence to safety laws, 
regulations, and standards (ISO 
45001, OSHA)
 >Health and wellness programs 
 >Employee security practices 
 >Virus and disease outbreak protocols2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 37 Table Of ContentsOur record reflects the results of our dedication to employee health and wellness. 
Less than 1% of leave-of-absence requests within NVIDIA relate to work and 
work-related injury losses are significantly below the averages for our industry. 
Our recordable incident rate for FY21 is 0.07 with zero lost workdays. Few workers’ 
compensation claims are submitted, and the majority of those processed are 
repetitive motion injuries. To address this issue, we’ve taken steps to work with 
affected employees through our ergonomics program and online courses.
PRIORITY: TALENT STRATEGY, 
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
We believe that our employees are our greatest assets, and they play a key role in 
creating long-term value for our stakeholders. To be competitive and execute our 
business strategy successfully, we must recruit, develop, and retain talented 
employees, including qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, 
and research and development personnel.  
Recruitment
The demand for talent in new markets, such as AI and deep learning, is 
increasingly competitive. Our intern and new college graduate recruiting 
programs are a sustainable source of talent, bringing in more than 1,500 hires 
in FY21. We partner with higher education institutions globally to develop 
our candidate pipelines, recruit at industry conferences, and encourage our 
employees to submit referrals, with over 36% of hires coming from internal 
recommendations. 
IN FY21, WE COMPLETED  THE ACQUISITION OF MELLANOX 
TECHNOLOGIES, LTD. 
Building on the groundbreaking work led a decade ago by Mellanox co-founder Eyal 
Waldman, we also hired  more than 100 engineers in the Palestinian cities of Hebron, 
Nabulus, and Rawabi, who were previously working as contractors at Mellanox, 
making us the first international tech company to directly employ engineers in the 
Palestinian Authority.
Learning and Development
To support employee advancement, we provide on-the-job training through 
coaching, feedback, and role modeling. We have a rich library of live and on-demand 
learning experiences such as workshops, panel discussions, speaker-based 
forums, and internally-focused technical conferences. We curate learning 
libraries around our most common development needs, provide the latest 
technical platforms to support self-paced learning, and regularly improve and 
update those topics using learner feedback from internal messaging channels. 
We offer tuition reimbursement programs and subsidize advanced technical 
education programs and online technical certifications. We encourage internal 
mobility through career expos and coaching, as well as foster mentorship 
connections and provide trained coaches as additional developmental support. 
Our strong partnerships with internal community resource groups allow us to 
personalize programs to address specific career development needs. WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Talent attraction, recruitment, and 
retention, including immigration 
considerations in talent acquisition 
 >Leadership development and 
succession planning 
 >Professional development and 
training 
 >Creating a culture of diversity and 
inclusion 
 >Workforce diversity 
 >Pay equity 
 >Executive and management diversity 
 >Supplier diversity 
 >Support for and promotion of racial 
equity and justice 
 >Compliance with antidiscrimination 
laws2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 38 Table Of Contents
Compensation, Well-Being, and Benefits
Our compensation program rewards performance and is structured to encourage 
employees to invest in the company’s future. To retain employees, while 
simultaneously aligning their interests with those of our stockholders, we give 
them equity with a realized value that is tied to our stock price performance and 
vests over time (except where unavailable due to local regulations). 
We offer comprehensive benefits to support the well-being of our employees and 
their families, including 401(k) programs in the United States, statutory pension 
programs outside the United States, an employee stock purchase program, 
flexible work hours and time off, and programs to address mental health, stress, 
and time-management challenges. We evaluate our benefit offerings globally and 
are committed to providing tailored benefits based on community needs, including 
assistance for military members, additional mental health benefits, and support 
for new parents and those who wish to become parents. 
Pay and Promotion Parity
We are committed to providing fair pay and equitable opportunities for advancement 
to all employees. 
To ensure pay parity, each year since 2015 we have used a third-party firm, 
Economists, Inc., to analyze our pay practices for gender, race, and ethnicity across 
75+ dimensions, including education, years of experience, job function, family, job 
level, and performance ratings. The firm has not found any statistically significant 
disparities in compensation related to gender, race, or ethnicity. We’ve achieved 
pay parity for the past several years and plan to continue doing so in FY22.
As part of our commitment to promotion parity, we engaged Economists, Inc. in 
FY21 to review promotion data from our last three annual performance cycles. 
The review analyzed the rate and number of promotions, as well as time to 
promotion, by gender, race, and ethnicity. This initial review did not yield any 
statistically significant variances in promotion rates.
If we were to identify an issue of pay or promotion disparity, our human resources 
organization would take corrective action. A TOP PLACE FOR TALENT
For the fifth year, NVIDIA is on 
Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to 
Work For. We also ranked No. 2 on 
Glassdoor’s Best Places to Work.Our Commitment to Employees
We treat each individual fairly,  
and we don’t tolerate 
discrimination or harassment 
against anyone on the basis of 
race, color, age, gender, sexual 
orientation, gender identity and 
expression, ethnicity or national 
origin, disability, pregnancy, 
religion, political affiliation, 
union membership, covered 
veteran status, protected genetic 
information, marital status, 
or any other characteristic 
protected by law.”
—NVIDIA Code of Conduct“2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 40 Table Of ContentsDiversity and Inclusion
We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and we’re committed to creating 
an inclusive culture that supports all employees, regardless of gender, gender 
identity or expression, veteran status, race, ethnicity, or ability. See Workforce 
Performance  for detailed metrics about our employee diversity. In 2020, we 
published  our EEO-1 survey for employees in the United States and will continue 
to do so. 
We’ve increased our efforts to recruit, develop, and retain a more diverse 
workforce with a focus on those historically underrepresented in the technology 
field. Our recruitment efforts reached 47,000 underrepresented candidates in 
FY21 through virtual university and professional career events. Last year, we 
created the role of head of diversity, inclusion, and belonging and hired a global 
diversity recruiting leader. Other efforts we’re undertaking include:  
 >Recruitment and Hiring: We emphasize the recruitment of women and 
members of underrepresented communities in technology, specifically focusing 
on Black/African American and Hispanic/Latino populations in the United 
States. In FY21, we created a dedicated recruiting team that works to find 
opportunities for outstanding Black and Hispanic/Latino candidates.
 >Crafting inclusive job descriptions and screening language to eliminate 
unintended bias using a third-party tool;
 >Evaluating the recruiting pipeline to identify bottlenecks for diverse 
candidates during the recruiting process;
 >Shepherding candidates from underrepresented communities through 
the interviewing process, engaging employees from underrepresented 
communities for recruiting events and interview panels, and increased 
investment in historically Black colleges and universities, Hispanic-serving 
institutions, and professional organizations; 
 >Developing diverse slate of internal talent for open management 
positions, beginning semi-annual talent review sessions with executives 
to identify internal, diverse talent, and forming sponsorship and career 
acceleration programs; 
 >Striving to provide hiring managers with a diverse slate of candidates to 
consider during the employee hiring process;
 >Making available a guide for unbiased recruiting and hiring to hiring 
managers and interviewers;
 >Partnering with our community resource groups to improve how we reach 
and attract candidates from underrepresented communities; and
 >Connecting new employees from underrepresented communities with 
community resource groups for onboarding and engagement.BETTER TOGETHER 
We integrate diversity and inclusion 
throughout the entire company. 
Read more  about how we’re building 
a better NVIDIA.
REIMAGINING INCLUSION FOR 
SOCIAL EQUITY 
In May 2021, we sponsored and 
participated in RISE 2021, Asia’s 
biggest LGBTQI+ job fair. Our virtual 
recruitment booth reached over 300 
diverse candidates for key roles in 
Engineering, IT, Human Resources 
and more.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 41 Table Of Contents >Development and Recognition: To maximize our employees’ success and 
ensure continued diversity and inclusion, we recognize and celebrate their 
contributions and encourage lifelong learning. 
 >Committing to pay and promotion equity among women and employees 
from underrepresented communities, and having our work audited by a 
third party;
 >Encouraging our leaders to promote diverse talent into management and  
executive ranks through focused development and sponsorship of employees;
 >Identifying specific needs for community resource groups and building 
appropriate learning experiences;
 >Featuring diverse employees on NVIDIA.com and our corporate intranet; and
 >Submitting top-performing employees for recognition and awards, such as 
the YWCA Silicon Valley Tribute to Women awards, which has recognized 33 
NVIDIA women leaders in the past nine years.
 >Employee Support: We’re committed to listening and responding to employees 
to deliver the right benefits for all.
 >Increasing inclusion communications and pulse surveys to measure 
employee sentiment and capture opportunities to improve; 
 >Conducting training with 300+ leaders to build awareness about 
unconscious bias in recruiting and hiring; and
 >Incorporating inclusive principles into manager development training.
We establish and provide funding to community resource groups, which have 
executive-level sponsorship and dedicated budgets: Black NVIDIAN Network, 
Early Career Network, Hispanic Latino Network, NV Pride (LGBTQ employees and 
allies), NVIDIA Disabilities Network, NVIDIA Veterans, and Women in Technology.  
We listened to comments from our Women in Technology resource group and 
reshaped our parental leave program  into one of the most generous in the 
industry, enabling birth parents to take up to 22 weeks of fully paid leave, starting 
as early as four weeks before their due date. Nonbirth parents get up to 12 weeks 
of fully paid leave. To ease the transition back to work after their leave, all new 
parents also receive up to eight weeks of flex time. 
We partnered with our LGBTQ colleagues to provide extensive family-forming 
benefits, such as adoption, surrogacy, and IVF. To support our veteran community, 
we provide paid military leave. And in response to feedback from the Black 
NVIDIAN Network, our health plan partner Cigna has invited Black physicians 
and mental health providers used by NVIDIANs to join the network. We’ve also 
provided ongoing customized mental health support, coaching, and education for 
the community.
In FY21, our LGBTQ colleagues shared a concern about the way transgender 
people were addressed in our workplace harassment training. We notified 
the vendor to revise the content, and the subsequent updates impacted every 
employer that uses that vendor. We plan to engage our community resource 
groups in future reviews of training content.INCLUSIVE ENGINEERING 
DOCUMENTATION 
In FY21, we reviewed our engineering 
and other documentation to eliminate 
outdated and insensitive language 
that is inconsistent with our code of 
conduct and principles of inclusivity. 
We recognize that communication 
patterns are learned habits and take 
practice and effort to modify, and we 
encourage our engineers to do their 
best to ingrain new positive habits.
PERSONAL PRONOUNS
In FY21, we added the capability for  
employees to voluntarily share and  
view personal pronouns in the company 
directory, based on requests for this 
functionality from various members 
of the LGBTQ community, including  
our own NV Pride community resource  
group and partners we work with 
across NVIDIA.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 42 Table Of ContentsHOW WE TRACK OUR PROGRESS
We set internal goals to increase our hiring of women and underrepresented 
communities in technology, track our success, and make any needed adjustments to 
ensure a diverse, representative workforce.  
 >We review our interview pipeline to ensure it includes a diverse slate of candidates.
 >We analyze compensation and performance annually to ensure parity among 
women and underrepresented communities.
 >We study employee survey metrics, focusing on how members from 
underrepresented communities view our work environment.
 >We measure how the promotion and turnover of members from underrepresented 
communities compare with company-wide trends. 
 >We provide executives with employee composition, hiring, and retention metrics for 
their business units.
Supplier Diversity
Our perspectives on diversity extend beyond employees and recruits and into 
our indirect supply chain. We have taken steps to better understand the diversity 
of our vendors in the United States and are working to educate those who 
make purchasing decisions to include minority-owned businesses in the vendor 
selection process.
Ecosystem Inclusivity and Representation 
Our commitment to diversity extends beyond our company to include partners, 
organizations, and institutions. In FY21, we hired a head of strategic initiatives to 
build our developer ecosystem and ensure it represents the global population. 
We’re expanding the pipeline of AI developers, from those in high school to 
university to working professionals. Our partners in these efforts include: ARC 
Network, National Society for Black Engineers, Queer in AI, Rewriting the Code, 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, and Stanford University’s Black 
and Latinx engineering societies. See Building the STEM Pipeline  for  
our k -12 activities.
We’ve increased our outreach to historically Black colleges and universities 
(HBCUs) and Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs), engaging with computer 
science departments around training, curriculum, and technology resources. 
FY21 investments include donating technology to support a school hackathon, 
consulting support through our solutions architect organization, and complimentary 
training passes to our annual developers conferences. In FY22 we’re launching 
an immersion program for first- and second-year students at HBCUs and 
HSIs to motivate and encourage the continuation of computer science and 
engineering studies.
We sponsor the ARCS Foundation, Queer in AI, and Women in Machine Learning. 
In addition to sponsorships, we participate in mentorship opportunities for Black 
in AI, Latin x in AI, and Rewriting the Code.
Each year, we hold our developers forum, the GPU Technology Conference, in a 
series of events worldwide. GTC is an opportunity to extend  our inclusion efforts 
to our external ecosystem. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all 2020 GTC events 
shifted  online, further enabling access by more developers.
Bloomberg Gender Equality Index
Corporate Equality Index—Human 
Rights Campaign’s Best Place to Work 
for LGBTQ Equality
Adoption-Friendly Workplace 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 43 Table Of ContentsWe invited an all-women panel from the University of Florida, the Boys and Girls 
Club of Western Pennsylvania, and AI4All, a nonprofit working to increase diversity 
and inclusion in AI, to discuss  the importance of AI exposure and education for 
children and young adults from underrepresented communities.
For our fall 2020 conference, we reached 4x the number of women, 2x the 
number of Black/African American developers, and 3x the number of Hispanic/
Latino developers than we did the previous year. Other activities to increase 
the number of women and technologists from underrepresented communities 
attending GTC included:  
 >Awarding scholarships for members of professional organizations supporting 
women, Black, and Hispanic/Latino developers.
 >Providing free conference and NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute training passes 
to HBCUs, HSIs, and professional organizations Black in AI and Latin x in AI;
 >Reaching out to women in our university and developer network, which helped 
to increase representation of women speakers; and
 >Highlighting diversity of speakers on the main GTC website and in our 
promotional materials.
We also created an inclusion taskforce to review all marketing materials to ensure 
broader global representation of customers, developers, and innovators.
Building the STEM Pipeline
Improving the representation of women and underrepresented communities 
in technology requires a long-term perspective, so we support opportunities that 
provide at-potential youth access to STEM and AI education. These efforts are 
designed to inspire students through our technology, engage them directly with 
NVIDIA engineers, and encourage innovation through hands-on activities.
In FY21, we continued our longtime partnership with global education nonprofit 
Technovation, which aims to empower girls and families to become leaders, 
creators, and problem-solvers through technology. NVIDIANs served as mentors 
for an online entrepreneurship program, led by Technovation and UNESCO, which 
encouraged girls to use AI to solve a problem in their communities. Employees 
also volunteered as judges for the Technovation Families program, which 
introduces students and families in underserved communities to AI through 
hands-on learning.  
We also helped organizations, including Breakthrough Silicon Valley, CodePath, 
MESA, and SuitUp, through virtual volunteer activities during which employees 
served as judges and mentors for STEM competitions and participated in mock 
interviews and resume workshops.
We funded organizations like Black Girls Code, Bridging Tech Charitable Fund, 
Education Empowers, and Girls Who Code through our matching gifts program 
and fundraisers organized by our Santa Clara office and our Women in Tech 
community resource group. 
As we look ahead to FY22, we’ve entered  into a three-year partnership with the 
Boys & Girls Clubs of Western Pennsylvania to create access to AI for students 
in underrepresented communities through the development of the AI Pathways 
Toolkit, an open-source curriculum supported by staff tools and training. The 
toolkit will be scaled to other Boys & Girls Clubs across the United States and 
made freely available to other groups interested in implementing AI education 
programs around the world.  2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 44 Table Of ContentsEMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
For 26 years, we’ve pushed the boundaries of what‘s possible in the world of 
parallel computing. We’ve succeeded because we’re focused and passionate 
about what we do. To ensure our continued success, we maintain a working 
environment where our employees are engaged and inspired. 
Our corporate culture arises from five core values, which provide the foundation 
for success. These values create a workplace where innovation thrives and 
mistakes are transformed into opportunities.
EMPLOYER OF CHOICE 
100 Most Just Companies in America  
Forbes, 2020100 Best Companies to Work For  
Fortune, 2021
Most Innovative Companies (Gaming)  
Fast Company, 2021Best Place to Work  
Glassdoor, 2021WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Employee satisfaction and 
engagement 
 >Competitive wages and benefits 
 >Work environment, company culture, 
and work-life balance2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 45 Table Of ContentsNVIDIA’s Core Values
INNOVATIONDream big, start small. Take risks, learn fast.
We make things that delight customers  and raise industry standards. We 
encourage employees to innovate, guided by first principles, not consensus.
We know our path to discovery will be paved with mistakes. We anticipate and 
avoid the ones we can. We accept, learn from, and share the ones that occur. 
This allows us to invent things the world doesn’t even know it needs, and by 
doing so, invent the future.
INTELLECTUAL HONESTYSeek truth, learn from mistakes,  share learnings.
We operate at the highest ethical standards. We seek  to accurately know 
ourselves and our capabilities—acknowledging our weaknesses and learning 
from our mistakes.
The sharpest understanding of reality improves our work. Identifying the 
origins of mistakes is not about blame. It is essential to learning and constant 
improvement. We say what we believe, and have the courage to act on it.
SPEED AND AGILITYLearn, adapt, shape the world.
We are alert and constantly learning, and adjust course to align to new 
realities. This lets us create groundbreaking products at astonishing speed. 
No politics, no hierarchy stands in the way of inventing the future.
EXCELLENCE   AND  
DETERMINATIONMaintain the highest standards.
We hire extraordinarily talented individuals across the globe, people 
determined to make a difference. We challenge ourselves to do our best work.
We measure ourselves not against the competition, but against perfection—
we call it the speed-of-light test. We are not deterred by lengthy endeavors if 
they are worthy.  We are playing a long game.
ONE TEAMDo what’s best for the company. 
We foster an environment of transparency, openness, and sharing 
information. One that motivates our employees, and empowers them to 
work as a single integrated team.
We disagree openly and directly because conflict is essential to resolving 
differences, improving ideas, and achieving alignment. Our focus is on 
substance, not on style. By putting the interests of the company before our 
own, we can more easily accomplish NVIDIA’s vision.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 46 Table Of ContentsEmployee Feedback
We’ve shifted from an annual employee survey to frequent pulse surveys. The 
purpose of these is to measure employee engagement levels and culture against 
employees’ experiences as our workforce shifts and we continue to grow. We’re 
able to analyze data across multiple pulses, along with other data resources, 
to draw correlations over time and pivot as necessary. This new agile approach 
allows us to hear from employees more frequently and stay focused on specific 
areas, while reacting quickly to current events.  
Our surveys ask for feedback across 13 dimensions, including strength of culture, 
engagement, vision and direction, connection, and meaningful work. The survey 
repeatedly tells us that our employees feel great pride in the company.
We’re committed to a strong workplace culture that listens to employees. In 
addition to pulse surveys, we receive feedback through an internal portal where 
all employees can submit, view, and vote on suggestions. Over the last year, 
we’ve converted employee feedback into company-wide policies and programs, 
including the addition of reimbursements and support for employees working 
from home, and a one-week global holiday shutdown to allow employees 
to recharge. We’ve also made updates to our tools and resources based on 
employee suggestions. Recent examples include the addition of SSO payroll 
access in India, and an enhancement of our internal wiki page to improve 
inclusivity  of commonly used terms.  
To address the stress of COVID-19 on employees, we’ve increased awareness of 
our wellness programs and encouraged managers to keep employee connections 
strong with a variety of virtual team-building events like cooking challenges, 
game nights, and happy hours. 
We provide effective grievance mechanisms for our employees. To report practices 
or actions believed to be inappropriate or illegal, employees have several channels  
through which to report, including our human resources department, a suggestion 
box, and a hotline  hosted by an independent third party.
We also participate in external “best place to work” surveys to identify our strengths 
and opportunities to improve to make our company a great place for all employees. 
We value the sentiment of our employees and use it to help guide our decisions. 
Our strengths include listening to employee feedback and taking action, which 
allow employees to have a voice and impact in the company. MEASURING EMPLOYEE 
FEEDBACK 
97% 
are proud to tell others they work 
at NVIDIA.
97% 
believe NVIDIA management is 
honest and ethical in its business 
practices.
96% 
said that when they joined NVIDIA 
they were made to feel welcome.
96% 
say that NVIDIA is a great place to 
work. 
Survey results from Great Place 
to Work for Fortune’s 100 Best 
Companies to Work For U.S. 2021 
rating .2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 47 Table Of ContentsCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Inspire 365
NVIDIANs share a passion for meaningfully supporting the communities in which 
we live and do business. Through our Inspire 365 initiative, the NVIDIA Foundation 
helps turn this passion for giving into action. Led by four staff members in 
partnership with employee champions around the world, the initiative aims to 
empower all NVIDIANs to get involved in their communities.
Inspire 365 makes it easy. Through matching gifts, flexible time-off, and a variety 
of activities and tools, employees can contribute where, when, and how they 
choose. Our collective, year-round efforts allow us to help those in need and 
strengthen communities around the globe. 
In FY21, NVIDIA’s philanthropic giving, through contributions and community 
partnerships, exceeded $25 million. 
Our giving efforts focused on fundraising, and featured two company-wide 
campaigns supported by special matching opportunities that netted nearly $13.5 
million to help those impacted by the pandemic. Including contributions from our 
year-round matching program, we contributed more than $19 million through 
employee donations and company matching in FY21.
While our company-organized volunteer events were paused due to COVID-related 
office closures, NVIDIANs still logged more than 9,000 volunteer hours through 
individual and virtual efforts. And our new Missions program encourages 
employees to complete simple acts of good through monthly challenges. Through 
Missions such as supporting underrepresented groups in the workplace and 
encouraging environmental sustainability, employees took more than 60,000 
small actions to support their communities and the well-being of themselves and 
their families while working from home. 
Collectively, these efforts supported more than 5,000 nonprofits in 50 countries 
around the world.
TOP 3 SDGS SUPPORTED THROUGH INSPIRE 365 GIVING:
More about our support for the UN Sustainable Development Goals can be found here .WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Community outreach and interaction
 >Monetary and in-kind donations and 
foundation grants 
 >Employee giving, volunteering, 
matching, and acts of good
TOP 20 ORGANIZATIONS 
RECEIVING SUPPORT IN FY21:
 >Alameda County Community Food 
Bank
 >Asha for Education
 >Central Texas Food Bank
 >Child Welfare League Foundation
 >China Women’s Development Fund
 >Doctors Without Borders 
 >Entertainment Industry Foundation
 >Feeding America
 >Food Bank of Central & Eastern 
North Carolina
 >Meals on Wheels America
 >PM Cares Fund 
 >Saahas
 >Second Harvest of Silicon Valley 
 >SF-Marin Food Bank 
 >Silicon Valley Community 
Foundation
 >Stanford University
 >Telluride Foundation
 >UN Foundation / World Health 
Organization
 >World Food Program USA
 >Wuhan University
Organizations are listed in alphabetical 
order. Funding amounts range from 
$145,000 to more than $2 million.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 48 Table Of ContentsInspire 365 Performance
FY21
Percentage of NVIDIANs engaged  
in the NVIDIA Foundation’s  
Inspire 365 program54% 
67% since FY20 launch (goal 100%)
Amount of employee donations 
matched$7,694,419
Number of small acts of good 
completed through Missions60,049
Unique volunteer rate3%
Number/value of volunteer hours9,367 / $254,785
In-kind giving$357,3572021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 49 Table Of ContentsTRUSTWORTHY AI
AI represents the most profound technological shift in our era, touching 
virtually every industry, including robotics, cybersecurity, finance, healthcare, 
transportation, retail, human resources, and customer service. NVIDIA is 
accelerating this revolution by creating advanced computing tools that serve 
as open platforms for developers, researchers, and data scientists to innovate 
in these areas. We educate  tens of thousands of developers each year, partner  
with thousands of startups globally—many of which are using AI to benefit 
society—and collaborate with dozens of universities and research organizations 
in performing groundbreaking AI research. 
We play a role around the world and across industries to enable software 
algorithms and AI solutions that benefit daily life. Our hardware, software, 
platforms, and full-stack solutions hold huge opportunities but come with 
risks. We have a responsibility to address ethical issues within our product 
ecosystem and are taking steps to manage the underlying risks. 
In FY21, we hired a lead of AI and Legal Ethics to develop and implement 
companywide trustworthy AI principles. We closely monitor the activities of 
regulatory bodies and standards committees around the world as guidance is 
given on AI trustworthiness. We consider United States, European Union, and 
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development guidelines, and we 
plan to join the IEEE effort to develop more comprehensive standards around 
AI in FY22.
We understand and share the widespread concerns about maintaining unbiased, 
trustworthy practices in AI. That’s why our global teams align to risk based, 
fit for purpose standards of accountability, transparency, and explainability in 
everything they do. We share our AI technology expertise with others to help 
them do the same. For example, we host seminars at GTC events around the 
world to train developers in upholding best practices, and when engaging with 
governments, we emphasize the importance of supporting positive uses of AI 
while considering issues inherent in its development.
We aim to promote a broader cross-company trustworthy AI framework by 
leveraging existing programs and frameworks to support a comprehensive 
position, while developing efficient, bespoke controls across products and 
services. While we’re in the early stages, we envision an AI product life cycle 
overlay, enhancing our existing workflows by applying existing practices, linking 
ethical and legal principles with development flow, and enhancing the product 
release process.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Responsible development and use 
of AI 
 >Monitoring of and participation in 
efforts related to trustworthy AI 
across NVIDIA and externally
DEMOCRATIZING AI
NVIDIA’s Anima Anandkumar spoke 
on the Radical AI podcast about 
democratizing AI through inclusivity, 
accountability, and collaboration. She 
leads the research group at NVIDIA 
that develops next-generation AI 
algorithms and is also the youngest 
named chair professor at Caltech, 
where she co-leads the AI4science 
initiative.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 50 Table Of ContentsHuman-Centric AI
Through our work with leading scientists and engineers to create the world’s 
most powerful AI supercomputers, we’ve learned a lot about what it takes to 
implement AI successfully—and where the pitfalls are. Our in-house research 
team applies best practices in its work and contributes to the development of 
engineering solutions that address some of AI’s fundamental challenges, such as 
data privacy and bias. We communicate  to developers that they should consider 
potential algorithmic bias when choosing or creating models and that they must 
ensure they’re using models under the conditions and in the manner intended.
In FY21, we worked with the University of Helsinki on differential privacy, a 
method for guaranteeing that a computation based on personal data will keep 
that data private. Differential privacy made MIT Technology Review’s top 10 list of 
breakthroughs  with the promise of profound impact. Our project demonstrated  
a way to accelerate training for differential privacy by 100x by running it on GPUs, 
while showing how to make anonymous versions of highly valuable datasets that 
must remain private because they contain sensitive personal information. 
AI-Assisted Video Conferencing
NVIDIA Maxine uses generative adversarial networks to boost bandwidth 
performance by using a neural network to compress and decompress video for 
transmission, enabling video calls with one-tenth the network bandwidth users 
typically need. This technology could reduce future bandwidth consumption by 
orders of magnitude as video conferencing gains popularity. Our research team 
paid close attention to racial, gender, age, and cultural diversity while developing  
the AI features in the NVIDIA Maxine platform. They curated about a thousand 
hours of video training data with representation across broad communities so that  
the technology will be usable by as many people as possible, from all backgrounds.  
PRODUCT SAFETY
Safety is a principle that permeates our engineering culture and is incorporated 
into every step of our product development process, from design and production 
to the end-user experience. The safety of our customers—inclusive of our 
partners and consumers—is important to us as a company and as individuals. We 
must meet customer safety and compliance standards; if our products are not in 
compliance, our partners may not incorporate them into their design strategies. 
Our ability to secure appropriate safety certifications and meet industry safety 
standards could affect the results of our business. With this in mind, we’ve 
established product safety technical committees to oversee safety throughout 
the product lifecycle. 
PRODUCT RECALLS
All NVIDIA consumer product safety recalls are reported to the U.S. Consumer Product 
Safety Commission. We have had no consumer product safety recalls since 2017.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Safety of products throughout 
product lifecycle, including materials 
and components 
 >Improper product usage
 >Efforts to ensure product safety 
 >Compliance with product safety laws 
and regulations2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT SOCIAL 51 Table Of ContentsFunctional and System Safety
We are transforming the autonomous vehicle industry with technology that 
improves road safety, increases transportation efficiency, and opens mobility 
services to all. Safety is more than just a benefit of an autonomous future. It’s 
a principle that we incorporate into every step of our development process—
from design and production to the operation of self-driving vehicles. As a 
solutions provider to startups, vehicle makers, suppliers, sensor makers, and 
mapping companies in the autonomous vehicle industry, we make safety 
our first priority. Experts build safety into every aspect of our NVIDIA DRIVE  
autonomous vehicle platform that enables  automakers and tier-1 suppliers to 
accelerate their production of self-driving vehicles. It scales from a palm-sized,  
energy-efficient module for SAE Level 2 capabilities, to a powerful AI 
supercomputer capable of autonomous driving. We develop tools and methods 
so technologies will perform reliably. Stringent engineering processes ensure 
that no corners are cut. Our safety priorities and processes are outlined in our 
latest Self-Driving Car Safety Report . 
Our commitment to safety extends throughout our data collection, training, testing, 
and driving solutions for autonomous vehicles, as we deliver industry-leading 
technologies to our partners and customers. Safe autonomous driving is built on 
four fundamental pillars . With high-performance compute at their core, these 
tenets illustrate NVIDIA’s dedication to safety and ensure a robust self-driving 
technology development cycle. 
1. An Artificial Intelligence Design and Implementation Platform
2. Development Infrastructure That Supports Deep Learning
3. Data Center Solution for Robust Simulation and Testing
4. Best-in-Class, Pervasive Safety Program
We are developing for compliance with ISO 26262, an automotive-specific 
international functional safety standard that focuses on safety-critical components. 
NVIDIA has been working with TÜV SÜD, a top safety assessment company, to 
assess and certify NVIDIA’s processes, concept architectures, and products since 
FY18. In FY21, our NVIDIA x avier SoC was assessed  to meet ISO 26262 standard 
random hardware integrity of ASIL C and a systematic capability of ASIL D for 
process—the strictest for functional safety. 
In FY21, advisory firm Navigant Research released its 2020 Automated Vehicle 
Compute Platforms report, in which NVIDIA led  the list of companies developing 
AV platforms to power the AI that will replace the human driver. We contributed  
to research exploring “what happens when AI agents in driving environments are 
simply tasked with getting to destinations as quickly as possible without crashing 
into one another.” NVIDIA DRIVE was one of three autonomous vehicle initiatives 
selected  by California’s Contra Costa Transportation Authority to estimate just how 
much intelligent transportation can improve the efficiency of everyday commutes.
Building on our investment in automotive safety, we’re expanding functional 
and system safety toward autonomous machines in general, such as robotics, 
smart manufacturing, and new frontiers of healthcare. Requirements of specific 
standards such as ISO 13849 and IEC 61508 are considered and applied in our 
product research, development, and engineering functions.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 52 Table Of ContentsCLIMATE CHANGE AND GHG EMISSIONS
We calculate scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for our global data centers and offices 
by gathering primary data for all data centers and offices larger than 50,000 
square feet (86% of our total scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions) and estimating 
emissions for offices less than 50,000 square feet (the remaining 14%). 
In FY20 we set a goal to source 65% of our global electricity use from renewable 
energy by the end of FY25. We estimated that by delivering on these commitments 
we would reduce our total scope 1 and 2 emissions by 25% between FY19 and 
FY25, which would be in line with science-based targets to achieve a 1.5-degree 
Celsius warming scenario. We are currently re-evaluating our forward-looking 
GHG trajectory, taking our business growth including recent acquisitions into  
consideration, to inform a science-based reduction target aligned with a 
1.5-degree Celsius warming scenario.
In FY21, we sourced renewable energy for 17 locations and obtained 25% of our 
total electricity use from renewable energy resources. Read more about our 
environmental goals in Energy, Water, and Waste .WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
reduction and mitigation 
 >Climate change risks and 
opportunities06
ENVIRONMENTAL2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 53 Table Of ContentsScope 3 Emissions
Our business causes GHG emissions beyond our direct footprint. We currently 
report several scope 3 emissions categories, including business travel and fuel and 
energy-related activities. Since 2014, we have required our key manufacturing 
suppliers to report their energy usage, GHG emissions data, and reduction goals 
and objectives. Read more about GHG emissions in our supply chain in Supplier 
Environmental Management .
In 2021, we will expand our scope 3 emissions inventory to include all relevant 
sources, such as our manufacturing supply chain and downstream product use 
and disposal. We expect to report our expanded inventory results in external 
reporting in 2022. We will also evaluate setting a science-based target.
Third-Party Assurance 
Trucost provides limited assurance under the AA1000AS v3 assurance standards 
on our FY21 global scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and scope 3 fuel- and  
energy-related activities (category 3) and business travel (category 6). View the 
assurance statement .
See FY21 data in Environmental Performance .
Transport and Logistics
How we plan, pack, and execute our raw material, work-in-progress, and 
finished-goods shipments impacts our scope 3 emissions. Fuel represents 
a significant portion of our overall freight costs, and our continuous focus on 
optimizing our transport and logistics has resulted in cost savings and lessened 
our impact on the environment. Improvements include:  
 >Efficiently configuring packing to reduce the number of pickups and deliveries; 
 >Ensuring that subcontractor cartons and pallets are fully packed and 
efficiently unitized; 
 >Using lightweight paper or cardboard pallets, whenever feasible, to reduce 
shipment weights; 
 >Using a multimodal (ocean/truck) replenishment program within the United 
States and for retail distribution outside the country; 
 >Requiring suppliers to report their participation in environmental initiatives 
quarterly; and
 >Using reverse logistics solutions that use onsite or regional failure verification 
and repair to streamline product returns and eliminate international shipments. 
We gather data from shipping partners related to the carbon emissions of our 
shipments from air, land, and sea. OUR GHG EMISSIONS 
REPORTING INCLUDES: 
 >Scope 1:  Stationary combustion 
sources (e.g., natural gas, diesel 
fuel) and hydrofluorocarbon 
refrigerant emissions. 
 >Scope 2: Purchased electricity use 
(data centers, labs, offices).
 >Scope 3: Emissions from 
purchased goods and services, 
capital goods, fuel and energy 
related activities, product 
transportation, operational waste, 
business travel, commuting, and 
upstream leased assets.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 54 Table Of ContentsENERGY, WATER, AND WASTE
We’re committed to protecting the environment by driving operational excellence 
in ways that reduce our environmental impact. In support of this commitment, 
we identify and control environmental impacts and continuously improve our 
performance using a comprehensive environmental management system (EMS) 
certified  to ISO 14001. See Environmental Performance  for a broad list of metrics 
we track related to the environment.
Our Environmental, Health, Safety, and Energy Policy  provides the framework for 
our EMS. Our dedicated Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) and CSR teams 
work closely with employees globally to execute our environmental policies and 
practices, which are made actionable through goals and metrics that are annually 
reviewed with executives. Building on this success, we've implemented an energy 
management system aligned with the ISO 50001  standard to bring a more 
structured approach to managing energy efficiency at several of our key data 
center locations that contribute significantly to our global energy usage. 
Our indirect environmental impact includes our product manufacturing supply 
chain. We require our key manufacturers to track and report energy, water, and  
waste metrics and to share their reduction goals and initiatives with us. See  
Supplier Environmental Management  and Scope 3 Emissions for more information.
NVIDIA’s Environmental Objectives
GOAL TARGET DATE/
STATUSFY21 PROGRESS
Source 65% of global electricity use 
from renewable energy by end of 
FY25FY25/Ongoing Sourced 25% of global 
electricity use from 
renewable energy
Maintain a waste-to-landfill 
diversion rate of 80% or greater 
each year at our Silicon Valley 
headquartersAnnual/Ongoing Diverted 68% from 
landfill in calendar 
year 2020
Achieve LEED Gold certification 
for our new Silicon Valley 
headquarters buildingFY23/Ongoing Target date for 
certification delayed 
from FY22 due to 
COVID-19 impacts on 
construction schedule
Implement an energy management 
system, certified to ISO 50001FY22/Ongoing Third-party 
certification audit 
scheduled in FY22 
Assess scope 3 emissions 
along the value chain, including 
emissions associated with product 
manufacturing, use, and disposalFY22/New Goal New goalWHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Renewable and traditional energy use 
and sourcing 
 >Energy efficiency and conservation 
 >Water use, sourcing, conservation, 
and recycling 
 >Product-related water needs 
 >Water risk assessments 
 >Hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
management 
 >Responsible handling and disposal of 
hazardous waste 
 >Efforts to reduce waste 
 >E-waste reuse and recycling
SUSTAINABILITY DIARY
Our global network of office 
managers collaborates to share 
sustainability best practices. In FY21, 
we tracked 56 actions implemented 
in our global offices and all regions in 
which we operate. Since 2019, more 
than 180 actions in the Sustainability 
Diary have been implemented.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 55 Table Of ContentsEnergy
Energy use, specifically electricity use, is the primary driver of our scope 1 and 
2 GHG emissions. Our total energy use increased by 33% in FY21 compared to 
FY20, with approximately 60% of the increase arising from our FY21 acquisition 
of Mellanox Technologies, Ltd. and approximately 40% of the increase driven by 
growth in our data center operations. Global data center operations have been 
growing rapidly along with our expanding business and our diversification into 
new online services. 
Data centers were responsible for almost half (46%) of our total energy use in 
FY21, with offices making up the remainder. As we expand our footprint, we are 
incorporating energy efficiency into the design of new buildings under our 
ownership, and we include energy efficiency and other sustainability attributes 
as selection criteria when evaluating new leased spaces.
In FY21 we saw new renewable energy supply contracts come online at our new 
supercomputer  site in Cambridge, U. k., and for our data center in Dallas.  We are 
actively exploring options to increase our sourcing of renewable energy for our 
growing footprint, in support of our 65% renewable energy goal. 
Water
We use water in our direct operations in cooling towers and for food service, 
landscaping, and sanitation. We take steps to use water efficiently, particularly in 
locations that are vulnerable to drought conditions, such as California and Israel, 
where we have large facilities. As we develop and grow at our headquarters, 
we’re implementing measures to conserve water resources and reduce our 
potable water demand. We first conducted a water risk assessment in 2018 and 
update it annually for all NVIDIA facilities, third-party data centers, and strategic 
supply chain partners. This helps us to target water conservation initiatives to 
locations where they are most needed.
Our headquarters building in Santa Clara, CA, incorporates a range of water 
conservation measures. Through the installation of low-flow bathroom fixtures 
and the use of recycled water for toilet flushing, the building is designed to 
achieve a 42% reduction in domestic water demand and a 91% reduction in 
potable water use for sewage conveyance. We use reclaimed water in the 
building’s cooling towers and landscape irrigation systems, and our landscaping 
consists of native, drought-resistant plants. We are incorporating similar water 
efficiency features and the use of recycled water for cooling towers, toilet 
flushing, and irrigation into the design of a second building under construction 
at our headquarters campus.
In FY21, we installed water-efficient fixtures and automatic faucets at our 
Shenzhen, China, and Bangalore, India, locations, as well as water-efficient 
dishwashing equipment in Bangalore.RENEWABLE ENERGY
17 NVIDIA sites sourced 100% 
renewable energy in FY21, including 
12 data centers.
We are on track for our goal to source 
65% renewable energy by FY25.
RECYCLED WATER IN INDIA 
Our Hyderabad site has a water 
treatment plant which treats 
wastewater from the site. The treated 
wastewater is used for landscape 
irrigation.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 56 Table Of ContentsWaste
In the last year, we implemented a range of measures such as simplifying and 
consolidating waste segregation at our Bangalore, Beijing, Warsaw, Munich, and 
Santa Clara offices with the goal of increasing our landfill diversion rates. 
Our employee restaurants and catering activities are an important focus for our 
waste program. Specific initiatives include replacing disposables with durable, 
washable tableware in our employee restaurants, a food-waste tracking system, 
replacing single-use items such as straws, and partnering with our food services 
vendor to make routine donations of food to homeless shelters. Our offices in 
India have eliminated disposable cups and plastics and ensure all paper products 
are recycled. 
We have tracked total waste generated and diverted at our headquarters since 
FY08. Our annual goal for landfill diversion is 80%. In FY21, we achieved a 68% 
rate overall (62% of our operational waste and 71% of our construction project 
waste was diverted).  Our employee restaurants were closed or operated at 
limited capacity for most of the year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Catering 
waste is the biggest component of our office related recycling and compost 
waste streams, and in FY21 we saw a more significant reduction in these diverted 
waste streams relative to primarily lab type wastes sent to landfill. This in turn 
negatively impacted our diversion rate.     
We generate various types of e-waste, including servers, storage equipment, 
and networking equipment used in our data centers; computers, monitors, and 
other electronic equipment used by our employees; and NVIDIA products we use 
at our sites for testing and other purposes. We partner with a global specialist 
e-waste vendor to ensure proper tracking, decommissioning, and recycling of our 
e-waste. Our logistics team has also implemented a new inventory management 
process that will improve visibility to our furniture and lab assets and support 
redeployment of these for internal reuse.
NGO PARTNER: SAAHAS
In calendar year 2020, we partnered  
with NGO Saahas to implement a 
solid waste management project 
in Ejipura slum for two years. The 
project includes implementing source 
segregation, establishing primary 
and secondary collection systems, 
composting of biodegradable waste, 
establishing systems for ongoing 
community ownership, and promoting 
awareness and sensitization. Through 
this effort, the living standards 
of up to 8,000 households will be 
transformed, by reducing greenhouse 
gases, creating visibly cleaner areas, 
eliminating the burning of waste, and  
reducing instances of sanitation-related 
diseases due to regular collection 
of segregated waste. The project 
will also provide employment and 
improved livelihoods for people hired 
to oversee collections and waste 
processing stations.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 57 Table Of ContentsDATA CENTERS, LABS, AND OFFICE 
MANAGEMENT
The environmental management system at our Silicon Valley headquarters, as 
well as our corporate processes for product design, procurement, and 
manufacturing supply chain management, has been certified  to ISO 14001 with 
zero nonconformances identified since FY06. See Energy, Water, and Waste  for 
information on our Environmental Management System.
Data Centers and Labs
Data center operations have been growing rapidly along with our expanding 
business and our diversification into new online services. As we experience this 
increase in our global data center footprint, we are incorporating environmental 
considerations, including energy efficiency and renewable power options, into our 
data center siting and sourcing evaluations. In the last two years we have newly 
secured renewable power for several colocation data centers both in the United 
States and globally. 
As we have grown our data center operations, we’ve deployed state-of-the-art 
cooling technology designed for NVIDIA server products. Power distribution has 
increased voltage supply to deliver power more efficiently. Cooling solutions are 
closely coupled with server racks to localize and optimize heat transfer. We used 
computational fluid dynamics models to enhance cooling for data center designs 
and server rack deployments. Data centers have also been equipped with white 
surfaces to optimize reflective lighting. Controllable, high-efficiency LED lighting 
is installed where artificial lighting is needed. 
We share our data center best practices and optimizations with customers and 
partners to educate them and optimize deployments. For example, in partnership 
with leading storage and networking technology providers, we offer a portfolio of 
reference architectures for optimal and efficient deployment of our DG x server 
products, and we make these publicly available on our website .   
IT lab environments are an important feature of several of our larger sites, where 
they support our product development and testing operations. Lab spaces are 
typically energy intensive due to the tools and equipment needed to complete 
important development and testing tasks. Our dedicated lab strategy team is 
rethinking the way labs are designed and managed at NVIDIA. This starts with 
a focus on data, using innovative technologies to provide a complete picture of 
how labs, and the tools and equipment contained within them, are used. This data 
informs our enhanced forecasting for future lab needs, more efficient deployment 
of existing tools and equipment, consolidation of energy-intensive lab operations, 
and planning for new lab spaces, which will dramatically increase the efficiency 
of our overall lab footprint.   
In FY21, we conducted a climate risk scenario analysis of global data center and 
lab locations under two climate scenarios, Representative Concentration Pathway 
(RCP) 4.5 and RCP 8.5. See Climate Risk  for more details.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Environmental management policies 
and procedures 
 >Environmental management systems 
and certifications (ISO 14001)
 >Green buildings
IT REFRESH PROJECT
In FY21, NVIDIA Corporate IT 
completed an operating system 
refresh in our data centers. We 
decommissioned 105 physical 
servers and 959 virtual machines, 
reducing more than 40% of the 
workload on our servers.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 58 Table Of ContentsGreen Building Practices 
Our rapid and significant business growth and the urgent climate action 
imperative mean that we must focus on siting expansions strategically, managing 
our operations efficiently, and sourcing low-carbon and renewable forms of 
energy to manage our GHG emissions footprint. As our building systems become 
more sophisticated, we provide our facilities management teams with additional 
tools and training to ensure continued performance.
In FY21, we expanded our portfolio of certified green buildings with the addition 
our new EMEA headquarters in Munich, Germany, which has also earned LEED 
Gold certification. To reduce its scope 1 emissions, the building relies on a local 
geothermal heating source and internal heat recovery technology to reduce 
by 85% its dependence on traditional heating and cooling energy sources. 
Furthermore, the site will use 50% less energy than a comparable new building, 
and when it does need to draw electricity from the grid, we have sourced 100% 
renewable electricity through a green tariff. 
Our newest completed building at our Silicon Valley headquarters in Santa 
Clara, CA, is LEED Gold certified. It was designed with high levels of energy 
efficiency in mind, including a high-performing building envelope, efficient 
and smart lighting systems that incorporate the use of daylight, underfloor 
air distribution, radiant heating and cooling, air and waterside economizers, 
and high-efficiency boilers and chillers. An advanced building control system 
underpins the building’s operation. 
We are also aiming for LEED Gold certification for another new building under 
construction at our headquarters. In addition to similarly advanced levels of 
energy- and water-efficient design, this building will feature biophilic elements 
and a shade-providing external trellis that will house 2,000 bi-facial solar panels 
to harness the location’s 260 days of sunshine per year.  
Commute Initiatives
We established a Green2Work program at our Silicon Valley headquarters in FY15 
to support our employees in using alternative commute options and reducing their 
commute impacts. The program includes 39 electric vehicle charging stations, 
pre-tax dollars for transit and local transit shuttles, last-mile shuttle service for 
train riders, resources for cyclists, advantages for carpooling and vanpooling, 
shuttles from San Francisco and Fremont, and an online resource for commuters. 
For cyclists, we provide lockers, showers, and secure bike parking. To assist our 
alternative commuters in the event of an emergency, we offer an emergency ride 
home program through ride-sharing services.
Most of our employees have been working remotely since the COVID-19 pandemic 
hit in March 2020. Working from home reduced the need for commuting 
programs. Ahead of employees returning to the office, we will evaluate what 
commute options will provide the most impact or may need adjustment. For 
more information about how we have supported employees working from home, 
see Our Response to COVID-19 .BASE BUILDINGS CERTIFIED 
GREEN
LEED Platinum – Santa Clara, CA 
LEED Gold – Pune, India; Bangalore, 
India; Munich, Germany
LEED Silver – Shanghai, China
BREEAM Outstanding – Warsaw, 
PolandGreen Records
The NVIDIA DG x SuperPOD system 
captured the top spot on the 
Green500 list of most efficient 
supercomputers, achieving a new 
world record in power efficiency 
of 26.2 gigaflops per watt. 
Overall, NVIDIA GPUs powered 26 
of the top 30 machines on the list.
—Green500 , November 20202021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 60 Table Of ContentsENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  
OF PRODUCTS
Whether we’re designing technology to power next-generation laptops or creating 
designs to support high-performance supercomputers, improving energy 
efficiency is a principal goal in each step of our research, development, and design 
processes. GPUs are ideal for matrixed calculations for AI, high-performance 
computing, data analytics, and graphics while CPUs are more optimal for 
performing tasks sequentially. 
GPU-accelerated computing moves compute-intensive sections of the applications 
to the GPU while remaining sections execute in the CPU. As a result, sequential 
calculations are performed in the CPU while the more complicated matrix 
calculations are computed in parallel in the GPU. Parallel processing performed 
by GPUs consumes far less power than equivalent, traditional computational 
forms such as CPUs. 
NVIDIA’s computing platform enables modern data centers to accelerate 
increasingly common deep learning, machine learning, and HPC workloads, and 
accelerated computing is, on average, 15x more efficient than traditional data 
centers across these diverse workloads. 
AI Performance and Efficiency
NVIDIA GPUs are up to 42x more energy efficient than traditional CPU servers 
for AI workloads. Our HG x-A100 cloud-server platform links 16 NVIDIA A100 
Tensor Core GPUs to work as a single, giant GPU, delivering 10 petaflops of AI 
performance, a record in AI training compute power for a single server. 
In just two years, an NVIDIA AI system has reduced the time to train the image 
recognition model ResNet-50 from eight hours to 40 minutes on a single server. 
As adoption of AI accelerates, our focus is shifting from training to inference—
putting trained models to work in live applications run by millions of hyperscale 
servers worldwide. Our TensorRT inference software helps even the largest 
neural networks across a broad range of data center, embedded, and automotive 
applications run in real time. A single A100 is 237x faster than a CPU. A hyperscale 
data center with NVIDIA GPUs and TensorRT takes up 1/47th of the rack space 
compared to CPU-based systems that it replaces and runs at 95% lower energy 
cost while providing utility to run all AI models.
The MLPerf consortium provides a machine-learning benchmark that measures 
system performance for training and inference from mobile devices to cloud 
services. In all eight MLPerf training categories, NVIDIA demonstrated  
world-class performance and versatility. Our AI platform set 16 records in 
training performance, including eight at scale and eight on a per-accelerator 
basis. And in MLPerf’s latest inference benchmark, NVIDIA topped  all benchmarks 
for offline and server data center scenarios. Our NVIDIA A100 GPUs provide the 
highest performance per processor among commercially available products. 
The NVIDIA x avier AI computer ranked as the highest performer among 
commercially available edge and mobile SoCs under single- and multistream 
edge-focused scenarios.WHAT IT COVERS: 
 >Environmental impact considerations 
built into product design and packaging 
 >Energy-efficient products 
 >Product end-of-life management2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 61 Table Of ContentsProcessor Energy Efficiency
Four years ago, we introduced Max-Q , a system design approach that enables 
thin and light gaming laptops to deliver high performance with optimal 
efficiency. Max-Q has been a paradigm shift in the way laptops are designed 
and built. Every component and element of the laptop—from GPU, CPU, and 
software to PCB design, power delivery, and thermals—is optimized for power 
efficiency and performance.
In FY21, we launched new desktop-class GeForce RT x 30 Series graphics cards. 
These GPUs offer up to 2x the performance and 1.9x the power efficiency over 
the previous generation. And in early 2021, we launched GeForce RT x 30 Series 
laptops, which are packed with third-generation Max-Q technologies and use AI 
and new system optimizations to deliver substantial improvements in efficiency, 
performance, battery life, and acoustics.
One of the biggest energy-efficiency improvement technologies we introduced 
is Dynamic Boost 2.0, which uses AI to balance power among the CPU, GPU, and 
GPU memory. It is available on all GeForce RT x 30 Series Max-Q laptops and is 
enabled out of the box, helping maximize performance in every app and game. 
Traditionally, gaming laptops statically set the power for the GPU and CPU. Yet, 
games and creative apps are dynamic, and demands on the system change 
from frame to frame. The AI networks in Dynamic Boost 2.0 manage power on a 
per-frame basis, so the laptop is constantly determining where power is needed 
the most and optimizing for maximum performance. Whether the application is 
loading the CPU, the GPU, or the GPU memory, the result is a larger performance 
boost than ever.
CPU to GPU Power Shifting
In Dynamic Boost 2.0, AI technology monitors the workload to infer the 
performance benefit from steering up to 20W of surplus power from CPU to GPU 
and vice versa. This allows net performance to match the performance of a laptop 
that was designed with an additional 20W power budget, achieving 20% power 
savings relative to a laptop designed with 100W thermal-design power for GPU.
PERFORMANCE GAIN WITH DYNAMIC BOOST 2.0 (CPU)
2 0 4 6 8 10 12 143DMark Fire Strike
3DMark Fire Strike Extreme
3DMark Fire Strike Ultra
3DMark Time Spy
3DMark Time Spy Extreme
3DMark11 Performance
Borderlands 3 - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Control - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Cyberpunk 2077 - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Death Stranding - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Metro Exodus - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Shadow of the Tomb Raider - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Strange Brigade - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Witcher 3 - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
% Performance Gain
Figure 1:  Dynamic Boost 2.0 shows 
significant performance gains at the same 
power budget when shifting power between 
the CPU and GPU across a variety of 
applications run at 1080p. Measurements 
performed at NVIDIA performance lab on 
RTx 3080 graphics cards for laptop gaming.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 62 Table Of ContentsGPU Memory to GPU Core Power Shifting
AI technology in Dynamic Boost 2.0 also monitors the workload on GPU core and 
GPU memory to infer the optimal memory clock and power state and shift power 
from GPU memory to GPU and vice versa. This allows net performance to match 
the performance of a laptop that was designed with an additional power budget of 
about 3-5W statically assigned to GPU memory.
PERFORMANCE GAIN WITH DYNAMIC BOOST 2.0 (MEMORY)
0.5 0 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4.5 43DMark Fire Strike
3DMark Fire Strike Extreme
3DMark11 Performance
Battleﬁeld V - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Battleﬁeld V - RTX-On, DLSS-On
Control - RTX-Off, DLSS-On
Control - RTX-On, DLSS-Off
Cyberpunk 2077 - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
F1 2020 - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Hitman 2 - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
Metro Exodus - RTX-Off, DLSS-Off
% Performance Gain
Together, these optimizations reduce power consumption by about 20-25% when 
compared to a laptop system that was designed for the same performance level. 
Conversely, a laptop with Dynamic Boost 2.0 delivers 12-15% higher performance 
than a same power laptop without it. 
Product Packaging
We strive to optimize a balance of protecting the environment and ensuring 
that our customers receive their products in excellent condition. Our bulk carton  
packaging uses corrugate material that is 100% recycled fibers and the cartons 
maintain an overall recyclability rate of 100%. Consumer packaging uses 70% 
recycled fibers and maintains a recyclability rate above 75%. We take every  
opportunity to reduce packing materials and increase the proportion of recyclable 
materials used. Whether products are packaged for end-users or prepared for 
bulk shipping, we design our containers to maximize package density and reduce 
overall package size. 
In FY21, we continued the environmental protection initiatives we initiated five 
years ago, which included development of smaller and lighter-weight packaging 
and creating a “core box” system so that primary packaging and shipping carton 
boxes can be shared among product S kUs. With product protection in mind, we 
use recyclable HDPE-2 in place of polystyrene PS-6 material wherever plastics 
are required. Our top priorities include removing film lamination, which in most 
communities renders packaging non-recyclable; switching the brand appearance 
from black ink to white, which facilitates removal of laminate; and switching tray 
components from plastics to paper-based materials. Figure 2: Dynamic Boost 2.0 shows 
significant performance gains at the same 
power budget when shifting power between 
the GPU memory and GPU core across 
a variety of applications run at 1080p. 
Measurements performed at NVIDIA 
performance lab on RT x 3080 graphics 
cards for laptop gaming.
100% 
Recycled fibers in bulk carton 
packaging 
100% 
Overall recyclability rate of bulk 
carton packages 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 63 Table Of ContentsFor automotive systems and our server products, such as the DG x-2 and RT x 
Server, which require shipping in a large cardboard box with protective foam, we 
aim to maximize recyclability in all packaging materials. 
As a result, we maintain a recyclability rate above 93% for all packaging. 
Other ongoing efforts to recycle and reduce packaging include using vegetable-
oil-based or water-based printing inks, using suppliers that leverage distribution 
centers to minimize the shipping footprint of packing/packaging materials, and 
applying materials labels to 100% of our packages to simplify consumer recycling. 
Whenever possible, we reuse moisture-barrier bags, trays, and bulk cartons; ship 
products directly to the retail distributor; and use existing packaging for return 
merchandise authorization support, which further reduces the environmental 
impact and ecological footprint. We’re also reducing paper use by providing online 
instructions wherever possible.
In FY21, we introduced multi-carton packaging systems with fewer and smaller  
paper components and replacement of foams with 100% recycled and/or recyclable  
HDPE-2 plastic “cushions”. We also engaged packaging suppliers around 
NVIDIA’s energy goals and supplier energy performance to lay the foundation for 
initiatives to reduce the energy used in the manufacture of our packaging.
Our key packaging suppliers are compliant with NVIDIA’s environmental 
requirements for Forestry Stewardship Council, ROHS, Halogen Free, and REACH.   
Product End-of-Life Management  
More regional, national and sub-national governments are regulating the disposal 
of electrical and electronic equipment waste by placing the responsibility for 
end-of-life management on the producer of the equipment. NVIDIA-branded 
products, such as our SHIELD gaming devices, are subject to such requirements 
in our various global markets, and we take seriously our extended responsibility 
for these products. In key regions such as the United States and Europe, we have 
established recycling programs in partnership with reputable third parties and 
we provide information to consumers about how to recycle our branded products, 
including through our product recycling  page.
We also provide instructions  for our networking equipment to support proper 
product dismantling, segregation, and recycling.  70% 
Recycled fibers in consumer 
packaging 
75% 
Overall recyclability rate of consumer 
packages 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 64 Table Of Contents07
GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
FY21 CSR AWARDS
Dow Jones Sustainability 
IndexMost Responsible 
Companies
S&P Global, 2020 Newsweek, 2020 
100 Most Sustainable 
Companies100 Best Corporate  
Citizens
Barron’s, 2020 3BL Media, 2020 
Most Sustainably Managed 
CompaniesGlobal  
100
Wall Street Journal, 2020 Corporate k nights, 2021 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 65 Table Of ContentsFY21 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
ECONOMIC STATUS
Disclose in line with the Task Force for Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)Achieved:
TCFD Index
Maintain inclusion on key workplace and CSR lists Achieved:
NVIDIA Awards
SOCIAL STATUS
Maintain Full member status in the Responsible Business 
Alliance (RBA)Achieved:
Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Expand quarterly business review process to include more 
strategic mechanical, component, and ODM suppliersAchieved:
Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Work with suppliers deemed high risk to improve their RBA 
risk performance statusAchieved:
Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Achieve 100% RMAP-compliant tantalum, tin, tungsten, 
and gold processing facilities86%
2021 Form SD, Conflict Minerals Report
Rank all active suppliers for their compliance with the RBA 
Code of Conduct, leveraging our RBA membership and 
using the RBA-Online platformAchieved:
Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Monitor disclosure demand for additional conflict minerals 
and materials, specifically the upcoming EU regulation; 
achieve 100% response rate from suppliers regarding cobalt90%
Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Integrate Russia EAC RoHS into New Product Introduction 
processAchieved:
Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Enhance supply chain compliance to NVIDIA’s Intellectual 
Property and Information Security requirements95%
Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Pursue a lost-time incident rate of zero in the United States Achieved:
Employee Health and Safety
Maintain work-related injury losses below the industry 
average (as measured by an experience modification  
rating of less than 1) in the United StatesAchieved:
Employee Health and Safety
Increase diversity of candidate pool by improving outreach 
to Black and other underrepresented communities in 
technologyAchieved:
Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion
Improve retention of employees from underrepresented 
communities by creating internal opportunitiesAchieved:
Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion
Sponsor underrepresented groups in technology through 
partnerships with Black in AI, Latinx in AI, Rewriting the 
Code, Recruit Military, and ARCS FoundationAchieved:
Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion
Sponsor Queer in AI, WIML, and Disability in AI at NeurIPS 
and several other high-profile conferencesAchieved:
Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 66 Table Of ContentsSOCIAL STATUS
Sponsor conference fees to our GPU Technology 
Conferences; host networking events for several new 
diversity partnersAchieved:
Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion
ENVIRONMENTAL STATUS
Achieve or exceed 80% landfill diversion rate for our 
Silicon Valley headquarters campus68%
Energy, Water, and Waste
Complete ISO 50001 Energy Management System stage 
1 auditAchieved:
Energy, Water, and Waste
Continue to track in line with LEED Gold criteria for our 
new headquarters building Ongoing:
Data Centers, Labs, and Office Management
Make progress toward our new goal to source 65% of our 
global electricity use from renewable energy by the end 
of FY25Ongoing:
Climate Change and GHG Emissions
FY22 GOALS
ECONOMIC
Maintain inclusion on key workplace and CSR lists
Include social and environmental data in proxy filing
Present ESG programs to analysts and investors
Close ISO 27001 information security management system gap assessment findings and internal audit
SOCIAL
Maintain Full member status in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
Work with suppliers deemed high risk to improve their RBA and cybersecurity risk performance status
Rank all active suppliers for their compliance with the RBA Code of Conduct, leveraging our RBA membership and using 
the RBA-Online platform 
Achieve 100% RMAP-compliant tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold processing facilities
Achieve 100% response rate from suppliers regarding cobalt
Expand our Full Material Disclosure program to all products
Pursue a lost-time incident rate of zero in the United States
Maintain work-related injury losses below the industry average (as measured by an experience modification rating of less 
than 1) in the United States
Recruit and retain members from underrepresented communities in technology, focusing on individuals who identify as 
Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, or women
Achieve promotion parity across dimensions of gender, race, and ethnicity2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 67 Table Of ContentsENVIRONMENTAL
Make progress toward our goal to source 65% of our global electricity use from renewable energy by the end of FY25
Achieve 80% landfill diversion rate for our Silicon Valley headquarters campus
Continue to track in line with LEED Gold criteria for our new Silicon Valley headquarters building 
Complete ISO 50001 energy management system certification
Assess scope 3 emissions along the value chain, including emissions associated with product manufacturing, use, and 
disposal
Evaluate commitment to set a science-based target
Maintain recyclability of all packaging above 90%
Reduce number of master and multi-pack cartons by 35%
Apply material recycling labels to 100% of packaging materials to simplify consumer recycling
Engage 100% of our Preferred Supplier List packaging supply chain partners to establish energy baseline
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
INDICATOR (DOLLARS REPRESENTED IN MILLIONS) FY21 FY20 FY19
Revenue $16,675 $10,918 $11,716
Gross margin 62.3% 62.0% 61.2%
Operating expenses $5,864 $3,922 $3,367
Net income $4,332 $2,796 $4,141
Income tax expense (benefit) $77 $174 ($245)
Total assets $28,791 $17,315 $13,292
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $28,791 $17,315 $13,292
Total shareholders’ equity $16,893 $12,204 $9,342
R&D expenses $3,924 $2,829 $2,376
Revenue by country/region See chart See chart See chart2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 68 Table Of ContentsRevenue by Region
Taiwan  
27%China  
23%Other Asia 
Pacific  
19%Taiwan  
28%China  
25%Other Asia 
Pacific  
25%Taiwan  
29%China  
24%Other Asia 
Pacific  
20%
United 
States  
19%Europe  
7%Other 
Countries  
5%United 
States  
8%Europe   
9%Other 
Countries  
5%United 
States  
13%Europe   
8%Other 
Countries  
6%
WORKFORCE PERFORMANCE
We gather information for this report at the end of the fiscal year, and the data points in the accompanying charts 
reflect a snapshot of our workforce at that time. 
Employee Profile
METRIC FY21 FY20 FY19
Employees 18,975 13,775 13,277
Offices 87 62 57
Countries 29 22 22
Headcount by Type
REGION FULL TIME PART TIME CONTRACTORS INTERNS
Americas 9,129 11 1,517 127
APAC 3,062 1 561 55
India 2,871 1 1,887 125
EMEA 3,688 212 703 58
TOTAL COUNT 18,750 225 4,668 365$10.92B
FY20$16.68B
FY21$11.72B
FY192021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 69 TABLE OF CONTENTSEmployee Type by Level
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT REGULAR EMPLOYEE TOTAL
(0.1%) (18.8%) (81.1%)
New Hire Data
BY AGE GROUP BY GENDER BY REGION
20-30 Years  
1,835 (31.4%)51+ Years  
593 (10.1%)Men  
4,635 (79.2%)Not Declared  
67 (1.1%)Americas  
1,857 (31.7%)India  
450 (7.7%)
31-50 Years  
3,426 (58.5%)Women  
1,152 (19.7%)APAC  
575 (9.8%)EMEA  
2,972 (50.8%)
Promotion and Retention
We are committed to providing equitable opportunities for advancement to all employees. See Talent Strategy, 
Diversity, and Inclusion  for our approach to promotion and retention of our workforce.
In FY21, we promoted 11.4% of our workforce. Of the 2,156 promotions, women comprised 420 (19.5%, which is 
roughly the total percentage in the company). Women continue to be promoted at similar rates to men, 11.6% 
compared to 11.5%. Promotion rates are evaluated across underrepresented communities in technology to ensure 
they achieve parity, which was the case for women and Hispanic/Latino employees. In the last year, we doubled 
representation of Black/African American employees in our workforce, and thus the resulting promotion rate within 
that community dropped significantly due to the number of new hires. We expect promotion percentages to balance 
out over the next two years as new hires become eligible for promotion.  
We historically maintain a low turnover rate. In FY21, our overall turnover rate of 3.8% remains in the single digits, 
compared to AON’s hardware industry average of 15.3%. The turnover rate for women and men has remained 
similar for the past several years. In the United States, retention rates for members of underrepresented 
communities have held equal to their peers.3,565 24 15,386 18,975
5,854
TOTAL HIRES5,854
TOTAL HIRES5,854
TOTAL HIRES2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 70 Table Of ContentsTURNOVER RATE FY21 FY20 FY19
Overall Turnover 3.8% 6.7% 5.6%
Men 3.9% 6.7% 5.6%
Women 4.3% 6.9% 5.7%
Black/African American (U.S.) 4.8% 6.6% 2.9%
Hispanic/Latino (U.S.) 3.3% 5.4% 5.5%
Pay Parity
Pay parity is a priority at the company. Since 2015, we have analyzed our pay practices annually across 75+ dimensions, 
which has allowed us to reach full parity. After welcoming thousands of new employees through acquisitions in FY21, 
our latest assessment found that women earned, on average, 98.2 cents for every dollar men earned performing similar 
jobs. In response, we will evaluate all factors that explain it and implement corrective actions. 
PAY RATIO FY21 FY20 FY19
Women | Men 98.2 | 100 99.7 | 100 100 | 100
Black/African American | White (U.S.) 101.9 | 100 102.4 | 100 103.9 | 100
Hispanic/Latino | White (U.S.) 98.3 | 100 100.3 | 100 101.3 | 100
DIVERSITY PERFORMANCE
We gather information for this report at the end of the fiscal year, and the data points in the accompanying tables 
reflect a snapshot of our workforce at that time.
Learn more about our approach in Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion .
U.S. Racial/Ethnic Diversity Snapshot
RACE/ETHNICITY FY21 FY20 FY19
Asian/Indian 47.2% 49.2% 50.2%
White 38.3% 38.2% 38.7%
Hispanic/Latino 3.3% 3.4% 3.3%
Black/African American 2.5% 1.1% 1.0%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
American Indian/Alaska Native 0.1% 0.2% 0.1%
Two or more races 1.1% 0.9% 0.7%
Decline to state 7.2% 6.7% 5.7%
TOTAL 100% 100% 100%2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 71 Table Of ContentsDisabilities Snapshot 
Employees can self-identify during the interview process, while onboarding, and any time during their tenure at 
NVIDIA to their manager or on our internal HR platform. Individuals can request  an accommodation by contacting 
a dedicated email alias.
REGION FY21 FY20 FY19
U.S. 1.23% 0.81% 0.84%
Global 0.58% 0.51% 0.45%
Age Snapshot
20-30 Years  
21.7%51+ Years  
14.8%20-30 Years  
22.0%51+ Years  
15.0%20-30 Years  
23.4%51+ Years  
14.1%
31-50 Years  
63.5%31-50 Years  
63.0%31-50 Years  
62.5%
Gender Snapshot
Men  
80.3%Women  
19.1%Not declared  
0.6%Men  
80.5%Women  
18.9%Not declared  
0.6%Men  
80.9%Women  
18.9%Not declared  
0.2%FY20
POPULATIONFY21
POPULATIONFY19
POPULATION
FY20 FY21 FY192021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 72 Table Of ContentsDetailed Gender Data
POSITIONS HELD BY WOMEN FY21 FY20 FY19
Outside Directors 25.0% 18.2% 18.2%
Executive Officers 40.0% 40.0% 40.0%
Leaders 11.3% 10.5% 11.0%
Managers 15.9% 16.2% 16.5%
In Technical Roles 14.1% 13.6% 13.7%
In Global Workforce 19.1% 18.9% 18.9%
New Hires 19.7% 18.8% 20.4%
For a breakdown of positions held by gender, racial, and ethnic groups in the United States, see our 2020 EEO report .
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
METRIC FY21 FY20 FY19
Lost-time incident rate (U.S.) 0.00 0.01 0.00
Total recordable incident rate (U.S.) 0.07 0.25 0.00
Fatalities (Global) 0 0 0
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Due to rounding, numbers presented in the tables below may not add up precisely to the totals indicated and 
percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures for the same reason. For FY21, we report our inventory 
with acquisitions completed by NVIDIA. 
Learn more about our approach in the Environmental  section.
Greenhouse Gas Data
METRIC FY21 FY20 FY19
Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 2,692  2,817 2,675 
Stationary natural gas 2,187  2,577 2,384 
Stationary distillate fuel oil 64  46 54
Gasoline 77  80 119
Refrigerants    363  114 118
Perfluorocarbons (Santa Clara headquarters lab operations) <0.01 <0.01 <0.01
Scope 2 emissions, market-based (tCO2e) 89,048  65,936  60,093 
Purchased and used electricity 88,466 65,882  59,282 
Purchased heating/cooling 582  54  811 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 73 Table Of ContentsMETRIC FY21 FY20 FY19
Scope 1 and 2 emissions (tCO2e) 91,740 68,753  62,767 
Scope 2, location-based (tCO2e) 105,621  74,692 65,107 
Scope 3 (tCO2e) 2,074,450 1,296,150 1,862,357
Purchased goods and services 1,857,415 1,105,644 1,688,698
Capital goods 102,026  72,946 49,964
Fuel- and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2 34,494  27,885 24,146
Upstream transportation and distribution 49,749 30,380 38,352
Waste generated in operationsa577  752 991
Business travel 3,068  31,285 51,525
Employee commutingb14,764 17,929 Not 
reported
Upstream leased assets 12,357 9,329 8,681
a As of FY21, emissions from waste generated in operation are calculated only for our headquarter locations in Santa Clara, CA, and not 
inclusive of global operations. Emission factors are based on U.S. EPA Waste Reduction Model (WARM), version 16, updated January 2020. 
b As of FY21, we included remote working emissions in Scope 3 employee commute to account for our workforce working remotely for a 
significant part of the year as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We followed the methodology published in “Whitepaper: Estimating Energy 
Consumption & GHG Emissions for Remote Workers” in February 2021, source .
Air Emissions Data
SOURCE FY21 FY20 FY19
Carbon dioxide (metric tons) 2,324 2,698 2,551 
Methane (metric tons) 3 4 4
Nitrous oxide (metric tons) 2 2 2
Hydrofluorocarbon 0.44 0.24 0.58
Carbon monoxide (metric tons)a0.37 0.26 0.31
Volatile Organic Compounds (metric tons)b0.18 0.15 0.24
Particulates (metric tons)a0.12 0.09 0.10
Sulfur dioxide (metric tons)a0.11 0.08 0
Ozone-depleting substances (metric tons R-11e)c0.005 0.002 0.006
a Carbon monoxide, particulate, and sulfur dioxide emissions are from diesel generators. 
b Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) are from diesel generators and Santa Clara campus lab solvent usage (e.g., wipe cleaning).
c Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) emissions are from hydrofluorocarbons.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT GOALS A ND P ERFORMANCE 74 Table Of ContentsEnergy, Water, and Waste Data
ENERGY FY21 FY20 FY19
Energy used (MWh) 325,899 244,760 197,074
Non-renewable fuels purchased 12,643 14,635 13,611 
Non-renewable electricity purchased 232,512 150,732 94,216
Non-renewable steam/heating/cooling and other energy purchased 1,679 210 227 
Renewable energy purchased or generated for own consumptiona79,065 75,052 89,020 
Renewable electricity as percentage of total electricitya25% 33%                                                           49%
Renewable energy generated, onsite solar 660 749 772
WATER FY21 FY20 FY19
Water withdrawal (cubic meters) 359,901 315,599 319,713
Surface water 0 0 0
Groundwater 40,041 4,136 32,208 
Rainwater collected directly and stored 0 0 0
Wastewater from another organization 50,078 31,644 47,737
Municipal water supplies or other public/private water utilities 269,782 279,819 239,768 
Percent of water recycled internally 0 0 0
Water consumption (cubic meters)b97,263 72,378 96,196 
Water discharge (cubic meters) 262,638 243,221 223,517 
WASTE FY21 FY20CFY19C
Waste, corporate headquarters (metric tons) 2,778 5,290 18,344d
Waste recycled/composted (metric tons) 1,887 4,100 16,554 
Landfill diversion rate 68% 78% 90%
General waste recycled 314 1,682 1,288 
General waste composted 173 1,116 1,008 
Clean paper recycled 18 19 29 
Batteries recycled 2 2 46 
Hazardous waste recycled <1 2 4 
Electronic waste recycled 43 75 128 
Lamps recycled 0.1 0.3 0.2 
Construction/demolition waste recycled 1,337 1,205 14,051d
Waste landfilled (metric tons) 891 1,189  1,790 
General waste landfilled 346 945 617 
Hazardous waste landfilled 0 0   0
Construction/demolition waste landfilled 545 245  1,174 
a As of FY20, NVIDIA aligns with regulatory definitions of renewable energy at our key locations and, thus, excludes large-scale hydropower, 
as appropriate, from our renewables percentage. This has particular relevance for our Santa Clara, CA headquarters.
b Water consumption includes water consumed by landscaping and evaporated in a cooling tower for our new headquarters building.
c Waste data for corporate headquarters was estimated on a calendar year basis for FY19 and FY20. 
d We accumulated a large amount of demolition debris as part of our project to construct a new Silicon Valley headquarters building. 92% 
was recycled in FY19. Leadership Performance
NVIDIA swept the annual Institutional 
Investor survey for the best executive 
teams, ranking first among over 40 
semiconductor categories including:
> Best CEO
> Best CFO
> Best Investor Relations Team
—Institutional Investor, November 20202021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 76 Table Of ContentsGRI INDEX
We applied the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Sustainability Reporting Standards  to produce this FY21 CSR Report. This report 
has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 
Per the GRI Standards, we indicate the location of the required “General 
Disclosures” and each of the “Topic-Standard Disclosures” related to our priority 
issues (“Management Approach for Material Topics” and selected disclosures). In 
some cases, we provide a direct response to disclosures or additional information 
related to content located on the main pages of the report within the index itself. 08
ESG FRAMEWOR kS2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 77 Table Of Contents2021 GRI Content Index
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016**
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization 2021 10-K
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 
services2021 10-K
About NVIDIA
102-3 Location of headquarters Santa Clara, California, USA
102-4 Location of operations Our Locations  
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2021 Proxy Statement
102-6 Markets served Our Locations
2021 10-K
102-7* Scale of the organization Goals and Performance, Economic
Goals and Performance, Diversity  
Goals and Performance, Workforce
102-8* Information on employees and other 
workersGoals and Performance, Diversity  
Goals and Performance, Workforce
NVIDIA employs several contract employees globally 
who provide a variety of roles across our operations and 
administrative functions. Current temporary worker 
percentage is 19.4% of total headcount (employees + 
contractors). 
102-9 Supply chain Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainNone.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach We do not specifically apply the precautionary principle. 
A description of the role of the Board in risk oversight is 
located in the 2021 Proxy Statement.
2021 Proxy Statement
102-12 External initiatives Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
About This Report
102-13 Membership of associations Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Corporate Governance2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 78 Table Of ContentsGRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016** 
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Executive Messages, Letter from our CEO
Executive Messages, Q&A with our CFO
Ethics and Integrity
102-16* Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behavior Governance, Ethical Conduct
102-17* Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsGovernance, Ethical Conduct
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Governance, Board Governance
Corporate Governance
NVIDIA has two committees responsible for  
decision-making on economic, environmental, and 
social topics: an executive-level committee and a  
staff-level committee. NVIDIA’s board-level Nominating 
and Governance Committee oversees CSR. 
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employees in the U.S., Canada, India, and APAC regions 
are not unionized. Employees in Brazil are unionized 
and make up 0.1% of our total population. Employees 
in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, 
Netherlands, Poland, and Sweden (which make up 3.9% 
of our total employee population) could participate in 
unions but NVIDIA is legally not allowed to inquire with 
them about their involvement. 4.0% represents the 
highest possible unionized presence that could exist in 
NVIDIA’s workforce. NVIDIA participates in collective 
bargaining agreements in Finland, France, and Italy. 
Employees in Germany have formal representation on 
work councils, and our France offices have employee 
representatives. 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement
102-43* Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement 
No engagement undertaken specifically as part of the 
report.
102-44 key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 79 Table Of ContentsGRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016**
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements 2021 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic 
BoundariesPriorities, Setting Priorities
102-47* List of material topics Priorities, Setting Priorities
102-48 Restatements of information There were no restatements of information.
102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant changes in reporting.
102-50 Reporting period About this Report
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 
the reportAbout this Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 
the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the 
GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance Environment, Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions
We did not seek external assurance for the report. 
NVIDIA’s internal audit function reviews elements of 
our CSR program, focusing on workforce and supply 
chain data points. Trucost provides limited assurance 
under the AA1000AS v3 assurance standards on our 
FY21 global scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and scope 
3 fuel- and energy-related activities (category 3) and 
business travel (category 6). Our pay data and equal 
pay metrics are evaluated by Economist, Inc. annually. 
FrameworkESG assesses stakeholder information 
annually to inform our Priority Issues matrix. 
*   Indicator aligns with the Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics  as defined by the International Business Council of the World Economic Forum.
** With the exception of GRI 303 and 403 that apply the 2018 version of the GRI Standards, NVIDIA’s FY2021 CSR Report applies the 2016 
version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 80 Table Of ContentsGRI 103: TOPICS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES 2016**
Material Topic Management Approach Cross-Reference Relevant External Entities
Economic
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016Goals and Performance, Economic
2021 10-K
2020 CDP ResponseCustomers
Consumers
Shareholders
Developers
Suppliers
Government
Communities
GRI 206: Anti-competitive 
Behavior 2016Economic, Business Model and Competitiveness Customers
Government
Shareholders
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy 2016 Environment, Energy, Water, and Waste
Environment, Environmental Impact of ProductsCustomers
Consumers
Developers
Suppliers
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental Assessment 
2016Social, Supply Chain Management and Product 
QualitySuppliers
Social
GRI 401: Employment 2016 Social, Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion
Priorities and Stakeholders, Stakeholder 
EngagementProspective employees
Shareholders
GRI 403: Occupational Health 
and Safety 2018Social, Employee Health and Safety Prospective employees
Shareholders
GRI 404: Training and 
Education 2016Social, Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion Prospective employees
GRI 414: Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016Social, Supply Chain Management and Product 
QualityCustomers
Shareholders
Suppliers
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 
2016Economic, Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
NVIDIA Privacy PolicyCustomers
Consumers
Shareholders
Governments
** With the exception of GRI 303 and 403 that apply the 2018 version of the GRI Standards, NVIDIA’s FY2021 CSR Report applies the 2016 version 
of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report.  2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 81 Table Of ContentsGRI 200-400: TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016**
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions, and Explanations
Economic
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016201-1* Direct economic 
value generated and 
distributedGoals and Performance, Economic
NVIDIA Foundation Report
2021 10-K
201-2 Financial implications 
and other risks and 
opportunities due to 
climate change2020 CDP Response
201-4* Government financial 
assistancePriorities and Stakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
We have funding from the Department of Energy, 
DARPA and the Department of Defense for GPU-related 
research. No governments are present in NVIDIA’s 
shareholder structure.
GRI 206:  
Anti-competitive 
Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and 
monopoly practicesIn FY21 there were no legal actions for  
anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly 
practices.
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy 
2016302-1 Energy consumption 
within the organizationGoals and Performance, Environmental
302-3 Energy intensity Our energy intensity per millions dollars revenue is 19.5. 
The metric is our energy use (325,899 MWh) divided by 
revenue ($16,675M).
302-4 Reductions in energy 
consumptionEnvironment, Data Centers, Labs, and Office 
Management
302-5 Reductions in energy 
requirements of 
products and servicesEnvironment, Environmental Impact of Products
Goals and Performance, Environmental
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
2018***303-3 Water withdrawal Goals and Performance, Environmental2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 82 Table Of ContentsGRI 200-400: TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016** 
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions, and Explanations
Environmental
GRI 305: 
Emissions 
2016***305-1* Scope 1 GHG 
emissionsGoals and Performance, Environmental
305-2* Scope 2 GHG 
emissionsGoals and Performance, Environmental
305-3* Scope 3 GHG 
emissionsGoals and Performance, Environmental
305-4 GHG emissions 
intensityOur GHG emissions intensity per millions dollars 
revenue is 5.50. The metric is our scopes 1 and 2 
emissions (91,740 tCO2e) divided by revenue ($16,675M).
305-5 Reduction of GHG 
emissionsEnvironment, Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions
Goals and Performance, Environmental
305-6 Emissions of ODS Goals and Performance, Environmental
305-7* NOx, SOx, and other 
significant air 
emissionsGoals and Performance, Environmental
GRI 306: Effluents 
and Waste 
2016***306-2 Waste by type and 
disposal methodGoals and Performance, Environmental
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
Compliance 
2016***307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws 
and regulationsTo date, we have not incurred significant expenses 
related to environmental regulatory compliance 
matters.
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016308-1 New suppliers 
screened using 
environmental criteriaSocial, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
In 2016 we implemented a process for new suppliers, 
which includes screening them for environmental and 
social criteria. 100% of new suppliers were screened in 
FY21.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 83 Table Of ContentsGRI 200-400: TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016** 
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions, and Explanations
Social
GRI 401: 
Employment 2016401-1* New employee 
hires and employee 
turnoverGoals and Performance, Diversity  
Goals and Performance, Workforce
401-2 Full-time benefits 
not provided  to 
temporary/part-time 
employeesSocial, Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion
All regular NVIDIA employees are eligible for benefits, 
which vary by region. U.S. employees are eligible to 
enroll in NVIDIA’s health and welfare programs if they 
are regular, full-time or part-time employees normally 
scheduled to work 20 hours or more per week.
NVIDIA Benefits
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety 
2018403-1 Occupational 
health and safety 
management systemSocial, Employee Health and Safety
403-2* Hazard identification, 
risk assessment, and 
incident investigationWe identify and assess hazards and risks in several 
ways, including through routine inspections, audits 
and incident reporting and investigation. We maintain 
a set of standard EHS risk assessment templates for 
use by our European sites. Our processes for hazard 
assessment and incident investigation are documented 
in our Illness and Injury Prevention Program.  Incidents 
and the results of incident investigations are recorded in 
our Global Security database. 
403-3 Occupational health 
servicesSocial, Employee Health and Safety
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and 
communication on 
occupational health 
and safetyWe engage our employees in our H&S programs in 
multiple ways, including through a suggestion box, office 
level H&S committees, a network of Site Safety Officers, 
regional EHS team members, dedicated EHS intranet 
pages, inspections and audits.  
403-5 Worker training on 
occupational health 
and safetySocial, Employee Health and Safety
We provide role-specific Health and Safety online 
training courses for our global employees. These are 
accessed and managed through our global learning and 
development program.  Training courses are offered 
individually or as a part of our most common groups 
(curriculums). Our role-based EHS curricula include 
Chemicals Management and Hazardous Waste, Data 
Center Safety, Lab Safety and Site Safety Officer training.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 84 Table Of ContentsGRI 200-400: TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016**
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions, and Explanations
Social
403-6 Promotion of worker 
healthSocial, Employee Health and Safety
403-7 Prevention and 
mitigation of 
occupational health 
and safety impacts 
directly linked by 
business relationshipsWe maintain a documented, global Contractor Safety 
Program which describes our procedures for ensuring 
and monitoring safe working conditions for contractors 
working at our sites.
We are a member of the Responsible Business Alliance 
(RBA) through which we cascade our expectations for 
responsible business practices to our manufacturing 
suppliers.  The RBA Code of Conduct includes specific 
requirements for occupational health and safety in the 
supply chain.  We monitor the H&S performance of these 
suppliers in several ways including audits conducted 
through the RBA and quarterly business reviews. 
403-9* Work-related injuries Social, Employee Health and Safety
Goals and Performance, Employee Health and Safety
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016404-2 Programs for 
upgrading employee 
skills and transition 
assistance programsSocial, Talent Strategy, Diversity, and Inclusion
Transition support is available through the Employee 
Assistance Program, which is available through COBRA. 
In some cases, NVIDIA may provide outplacement 
services. NVIDIA’s Learning & Development organization 
provides skills building and lifelong learning 
opportunities.
404-3 Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career 
development reviews100% of employees receive regular performance and 
career development reviews.
GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 
2016***405-1* Diversity of 
governance bodies 
and employeesGoals and Performance, Diversity  
Goals and Performance, Workforce
23% of our Board members are women, and 38% of our 
Board is gender, racially, or ethnically diverse. 40% of 
our NEO are women, and 80% of our NEO are gender, 
racially, or ethnically diverse.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 85 Table Of ContentsGRI 200-400: TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016** 
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions, and Explanations
Social
GRI 407: Freedom 
of Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 
2016***407-1* Operations and 
suppliers in which 
the right to freedom 
of association and 
collective bargaining 
might be at riskSocial, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
We ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self-Assessment 
Questionnaires on an annual basis, in which they 
self-report information on freedom of association and 
collective bargaining. We validate this with critical tier 
1 suppliers through the RBA Validated Audit Process 
protocol.
NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct
Corporate Responsibility Directive
RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 408: Child 
Labor 2016**408-1* Operations and 
suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of 
child laborSocial, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
We ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self-Assessment 
Questionnaires on an annual basis, in which they  
self-report information on child labor. We validate this 
with critical tier 1 suppliers through the RBA Validated 
Audit Process protocol.
NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct
RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 409: Forced 
or Compulsory 
Labor 2016***409-1* Operations and 
suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory 
laborSocial, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
We ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self-Assessment 
Questionnaires on an annual basis, in which they 
self-report information on forced or bonded labor. We 
validate this with critical tier 1 suppliers through the 
RBA Validated Audit Process protocol.
Combatting Trafficking in Persons Policy
RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016414-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using 
social criteria Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
In 2016 we implemented a process for new suppliers, 
which includes screening them for environmental and 
social criteria. 100% of new suppliers were screened  
in FY21.
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labeling 2016***417-2 Incidents of 
non-compliance 
concerning product 
and service 
information and 
labelingWe consider significant incidents of non-compliance 
those that are disclosed in the company’s SEC filings. 
There were no such incidents in FY21 that fell into  
this category.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 86 Table Of ContentsGRI 200-400: TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016** 
 Topic Disclosure Description Cross-Reference, Omissions, and Explanations
Social
GRI 418: 
Customer Privacy 
2016418-1 Substantiated 
complaints concerning 
breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of 
customer dataWe consider significant substantiated complaints those 
that are disclosed in the company's SEC filings. There 
were no substantiated complaints in FY21 that fell into 
this category.
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 
2016***419-1 Non-compliance with 
laws and regulations 
in the social and 
economic areaWe consider significant fines those that are required  
to be disclosed in the company's SEC filings. We were  
not subject to any significant fines in FY21 for  
non-compliance with laws and regulations.
*     Indicator aligns with the Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics  as defined by the International Business Council of the World Economic Forum.
**   With the exception of GRI 303 and 403 that apply the 2018 version of the GRI Standards, NVIDIA’s FY2021 CRS Report applies the 2016 
version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 
*** We have reported additional disclosures not related to material topics.   2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 87 Table Of ContentsSASB INDEX
We disclose in accordance with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for the Technology and 
Communications sector, Semiconductor industry. 
As we are a fabless semiconductor company, we have been asked by SASB to not provide metrics for direct energy, 
water, and waste metrics for our suppliers as it hinders comparison against suppliers with manufacturing facilities. 
We monitor the environmental footprint of our suppliers and work with them through the supplier management 
process on goal setting and activities they can undertake to reduce their environmental impact. We calculate 
carbon, water, and waste data of all silicon manufacturers and systems contract manufacturers to determine 
carbon emissions and water consumption per product and per financial outlay.
SASB 2018*
Topic SASB Code Accounting Metric Cross-Reference, Omissions,  
and Explanation
Semiconductors
Greenhouse Gas 
EmissionsTC-SC-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions Goals and Performance, Environmental
Amount of total emissions from 
perflourinated carbonsGoals and Performance, Environmental
TC-SC-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term 
strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 
emissions, emissions reduction targets, 
and an analysis of performance against 
those targetsEnvironment, Climate Change and GHG 
Emissions
2020 CDP Response
Energy 
Management in 
ManufacturingTC-SC-130a.1 Total energy consumed NVIDIA is a fabless semiconductor 
company and does not have its own 
manufacturing facilities. See Supplier 
Environmental Management  for how 
we work with suppliers to track energy, 
water, and waste.Percentage of total energy consumed 
that is grid electricity
Percentage of total energy consumed 
that is renewable
Water 
ManagementTC-SC-140a.1 Total water withdrawn NVIDIA is a fabless semiconductor 
company and does not have its own 
manufacturing facilities. See Supplier 
Environmental Management  for how 
we work with suppliers to track energy, 
water, and waste.Total water consumed
Percentage of total water withdrawn 
in regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress
Percentage of water consumed in 
regions with High or Extremely High 
Baseline Water Stress2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 88 Table Of ContentsSASB SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 2018* 
Topic SASB Code Accounting Metric Cross-Reference, Omissions,  
and Explanation
Semiconductors 
Waste 
ManagementTC-SC-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste from 
manufacturingNVIDIA is a fabless semiconductor 
company and does not have its own 
manufacturing facilities. See Supplier 
Environmental Management  for how 
we work with suppliers to track energy, 
water, and waste.Percentage of hazardous waste from 
manufacturing that is recycled
The entity shall disclose the legal or  
regulatory framework(s) used to 
define hazardous waste and recycled 
hazardous waste, and the amounts of 
waste defined in accordance with each 
applicable framework
Employee Health & 
SafetyTC-SC-320a.1 Description of efforts to assess, monitor, 
and reduce exposure of employees to 
human health hazardsNVIDIA is a fabless semiconductor 
company. We manage the health and 
safety of workers in our supply chain 
through membership in the Responsible 
Business Alliance. We comply with 
the RBA code of conduct, and require 
suppliers to complete self-assessments 
and participate in audits every two years. 
See Supply Chain Management and 
Product Quality  for more information, 
and the Employee Health and Safety  
section for how we manage EHS across 
our corporate campuses.
TC-SC-320a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with employee health and safety 
violationsThere were no legal proceedings 
associated with employee health and 
safety violations in FY21.
The entity shall briefly describe the 
nature, context, and any corrective 
actions taken as a result of the  
monetary lossesN/A
Recruiting & 
Managing a 
Global & Skilled 
WorkforceTC-SC-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are 
foreign nationalsPercentage of foreign nationals not 
disclosed. 
Percentage of employees that are 
located offshoreGoals and Performance, Workforce
Disclosure shall include a description 
of potential risks of recruiting foreign 
nationals and/or offshore employees, 
and management approach to 
addressing these risks2021 10-K2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 89 Table Of ContentsSASB SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 2018* 
Topic SASB Code Accounting Metric Cross-Reference, Omissions,  
and Explanation
Semiconductors (Continue)
Product Lifecycle 
ManagementTC-SC-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue that 
contain IEC 62474 declarable substancesApproximately 38% of products contain 
IEC 62474 declarable substances. 
NVIDIA is working with Digital Europe 
and European Commission to research 
and develop viable alternatives. 
Disclosure shall include a discussion 
of efforts to minimize usage of these 
substancesNVIDIA is working with Digital Europe 
and European Commission to research 
and develop viable alternatives.
TC-SC-410a.2 Processor energy efficiency at a  
system-level for serversEnvironment, Environmental Impact of 
Products
Processor energy efficiency at a  
system-level for desktopsEnvironment, Environmental Impact of 
Products
Processor energy efficiency at a  
system-level for laptopsEnvironment, Environmental Impact of 
Products
Disclosure shall include a discussion of 
efforts to design for new and emerging 
usage patterns with respect to energy 
efficiency in all product categories (i.e., 
applications for servers, desktops, 
laptops, workstations, netbooks, tablets, 
mobile phones, and storage).2020 CDP Response
Materials Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management of risks 
associated with use of critical materialsSocial, Supply Chain Management and 
Product Quality
NVIDIA is primarily focused on the 
risks associated with the recognized 
“conflict minerals” which includes gold, 
tantalum, tungsten, and tin.
2021 Conflict Minerals Report
Intellectual 
Property 
Protection & 
Competitive 
BehaviorTC-SC-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with anti-competitive behavior 
regulationsIn FY21 there were no legal actions for 
anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or 
monopoly practices.
The entity shall briefly describe the 
nature, context, and any corrective 
actions taken as a result of the  
monetary lossesN/A
* NVIDIA’s FY2021 CSR Report applies the 2018 version of the Semiconductors Sustainability Accounting Standards; “2018” refers 
to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 90 Table Of ContentsTCFD INDEX
Last year, we started disclosing climate-related information based on the recommendations prescribed by the Task 
Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
TCFD INDEX
Disclosure Item Recommended Disclosure - Description NVIDIA Reference
Governance a. Board Oversight—Describe the Board’s oversight of 
climate-related risks and opportunities.
b. Management’s Role—Describe management’s role 
in assessing and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities.2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C1. Governance - C1.1; 
pp. 4-5
2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C1. Governance - C1.2; 
pp. 5-6
Strategy a. Risks and Opportunities—Describe the climate-related 
risks and opportunities the organization has identified over 
the short, medium, and long term.
b. Impact on Organization—Describe the impact of  
climate-related risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
c. Resilience of Strategy—Describe the potential impact 
of different scenarios, including a 2°C scenario, on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2. Risks & 
opportunities - C2.2a; pp. 11-12
2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2. Risks & 
opportunities - C2.3 and C2.4; pp. 
12-25
We completed a scenario analysis 
in FY21, see Climate Risk . 
Risk Management a. Risk Assessment Processes—Describe the organization’s 
processes for identifying and assessing climate-related 
risks.
b. Risk Management Processes—Describe the organization’s 
processes for managing climate-related risks.
c. Integration into Overall Risk Management—Describe 
how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing 
climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s 
overall risk management.2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2. Risks & 
opportunities - C2.1; pp. 8-9
2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2. Risk & 
Opportunities - C2.2; pp. 9-10
2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C3. Business Strategy – 
C3.1d and C3.1e; pp. 27-30
Metrics and 
Targetsa. Climate-Related Metrics—Disclose the metrics used 
by the organization to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk  
management process.
b. Scope 1,2,3 GHG Emissions—Disclose Scope 1, Scope 
2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, and the related risks.
c. Climate Related Targets—Describe the targets used by 
the organization to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance against targets.2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C5. Emissions 
methodology - C5.1; pp. 37-38
2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C6.1-6.7; pp. 38-47 
2020 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C4. Targets and 
performance - C4.1-4.3; pp. 30-362021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 91 Table Of ContentsUN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
We continue to align our business activities and charitable contributions to the 17 United Nations’ Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). We are best positioned to contribute to the following SDGs:
SDG NVIDIA ACTION/INITIATIVE
COVID-19 Spurs Scientific Revolution in Drug Discovery with AI —Rommie Amaro, 
Ph.D., who leads a team of biochemists and computer experts at the University 
of California at San Diego, combined high performance computing and AI to 
provide the clearest view to date of the coronavirus. The resulting simulation was 
downloaded more than 4,000 times by global researchers worldwide and was 
called “critical for vaccine design” for COVID and future pathogens. The Amaro 
Lab’s work won a special Gordon Bell Prize for COVID-19, the equivalent of a 
Nobel Prize in the supercomputing community. It’s one example of work around 
the world using AI and data analytics, accelerated by NVIDIA Clara Discovery, to 
slash the $2 billion in costs and 10-year time span it typically takes to bring a new 
drug to market.
AI Software Keeps Drivers Safe and Focused on the Road Ahead —Even with 
advanced driver assistance systems automating more driving functions, human 
drivers must maintain their attention at the wheel and build trust in the AI system. 
Traditional driver monitoring systems typically don’t understand subtle cues such 
as a driver’s cognitive state, behavior, or other activity that indicates whether 
they’re ready to take over the driving controls.
NVIDIA DRIVE I x is an open, scalable cockpit software platform that provides 
AI functions to enable a full range of in-cabin experiences, including intelligent 
visualization with augmented reality and virtual reality, conversational AI, and 
interior sensing.
At GTC, Educators and Leaders Focus on Equity in AI, Developer Diversity —This 
year, we strengthened our support for women and underrepresented developers 
and scientists at GTC by providing conference passes to members of professional 
organizations supporting women, Black, and Hispanic/Latino developers. 
Professors at historically Black colleges and universities—including Prairie 
View A&M University, Hampton University, and Jackson State University—as 
well as groups like  Black in AI and LatinX in AI received complimentary access 
to training from the NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute . And in a collaboration with 
the National Society of Black Engineers  that will extend beyond GTC, we created 
opportunities for the society’s collegiate and professional developers to engage 
with NVIDIA’s recruiting team, which provided guidance on navigating the new 
world of virtual interviewing and networking.
Duckietown Foundation Offering Free Robotics Courses —The Duckietown 
project, which started as an MIT class in 2016, has evolved into an open-source 
platform for robotics and AI education, research, and outreach. The project is 
coordinated by the Duckietown Foundation, whose mission is to reach and teach 
a wide audience of students about robotics and AI. The Duckietown Foundation 
announced that it’s offering a free ed x course on AI and robotics using the 
Duckiebot hardware platform powered by the new NVIDIA Jetson Nano 2GB 
Developer k it.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ESG F RAMEWOR kS 92 Table Of ContentsSDG NVIDIA ACTION/INITIATIVE
Why 20,000+ Developers from Emerging Markets Signed Up for GTC —Our recent 
GPU Technology Conference—virtual, free to register, and featuring 24/7 content 
—for the first time featured a dedicated track on AI in emerging markets. The 
sessions attracted a record 20,000+ developers, industry leaders, policymakers, 
and researchers in emerging markets across 95 countries. Dozens of startup 
founders from emerging markets shared their innovations. Community leaders, 
major tech companies and nonprofits discussed their work to build resources 
for developers in the Caribbean, Latin America, and Africa. And hands-on labs, 
training and networking sessions offered opportunities for attendees to boost 
their skills and ask questions of AI experts.
Three Startups Using Deep Learning for Environmental Monitoring —NVIDIA 
Inception is an accelerator program for startups in AI, data science, and HPC that 
equips them with fundamental tools to support product development, prototyping, 
and deployment. Companies in the NVIDIA Inception program are using aerial 
imagery and AI to track global deforestation, monitor thawing permafrost in the 
Arctic, and prevent natural gas leaks.2021 NVIDIA CSR REPORT ABOUT T HIS R EPORT 93ABOUT THIS REPORT
The NVIDIA FY21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 
covers our economic, environmental, social, and governance 
performance for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021. 
This report adheres to the GRI Standards: Core  option. 
We’ve reported through GRI publicly since 2010. We also 
disclose in accordance with the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board  and Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures . We continue to align our social 
impact activities with the United Nations’ Sustainable 
Development Goals . 
Previous CSR reports can be found in the NVIDIA CSR 
Report Archive .
We determined the content for this report based on 
conversations among management and engagement with 
several stakeholders. No significant changes have occurred 
during the reporting period with regard to the scope, 
boundary, or measurement methods applied in this report. 
Distributing This Report
We promote the availability of our report through:
 >Targeted communications to employees and executives.
 >Outreach to stakeholders and reporting organizations.
 >Individual outreach to shareholder groups that make 
inquiries throughout the year.
 >Our social media channels, which are followed by 
approximately 33 million individuals.
We welcome feedback on this report and our performance. 
Send comments and suggestions to esg @nvidia.com  or to:
NVIDIA  
Corporate Responsibility  
2530 Zanker Rd  
San Jose, CA 95131The information contained in this report is accurate as 
of approximately June 25, 2021, unless a different date is 
used in this report. The information is subject to change, 
and NVIDIA will not necessarily disclose such changes. 
The information may be updated, amended, supplemented, 
or otherwise altered by subsequent reports or filings  
by NVIDIA.
Certain statements included or incorporated by reference 
in this report, other than statements or characterizations of 
historical fact, including, but not limited to, statements as 
to: our growth; our market opportunities; the performance, 
impact, and benefits of our products and technologies; 
our strategies; our priorities, goals, and objectives; 
market trends; future forecasts; and other predictions and 
estimates are forward-looking statements and are based 
on our current expectations, estimates, and projections 
about our industry and our management’s beliefs and 
assumptions. We caution readers that these statements are 
merely predictions and are not guarantees of future results. 
Actual events may differ materially, perhaps adversely.
Our Annual Report on Form 10- k, subsequent Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8- k, 
and other filings made with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission discuss some of the important risk factors 
that could contribute to differences between projections 
and outcomes, which could affect our business, operational 
results, and financial condition. Except as required by law, 
NVIDIA does not recognize any obligation to revise or update 
any forward-looking statements.
© 2021 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA and the NVIDIA logo are registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation 
in the United States and other countries.
Table Of Contents