2019
NVIDIA  
CORPORATE
SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT2EXECUTIVE  
LETTERS
03 Message from our CEO
04 Message from our EVP of Operations
PRIORITIES
05 Setting Priorities
07 UN Sustainable Development Goals
STAKEHOLDER  
ENGAGEMENT
GOVERNANCE
13 Board Governance  
14 Compliance  
14 Ethical Conduct  
15 Anti-Corruption
16 Transparency
ECONOMIC
17 PRIORITY: Innovation
18 PRIORITY: Business Model  
 and Competitiveness
19 PRIORITY: Cybersecurity
20 PRIORITY:  Trade Issues
21 Business Continuity Management
22 Customer Relations
23 Brand and Reputation
24 Public Policy Engagement01
02
03
04
05SOCIAL
25 PRIORITY:  Supply Chain  
 Management and Product Quality
28 PRIORITY:  Talent Strategy
31 Employee Engagement
33 Diversity and Inclusion
37 Employee Health and Safety
38 Product Safety
39 Societal Impacts of AI
40 Philanthropy and Volunteerism
ENVIRONMENTAL
41 Greenhouse Gases and  
 Climate Change
43 Energy, Water, Waste
46 Facilities Management
47 Environmental Impacts of Products
50 Materials Availability
50 Packaging, Transport, and Logistics
GOALS AND  
PERFORMANCE
52 FY19 Goals and Performance
55 FY20 Goals
56 Economic Performance
57 Diversity and Workforce  
 Performance
61 Supply Chain Performance
63 Environmental Performance
68 Philanthropy and Volunteer  
 Performance
68 GRI Index
ABOUT THIS REPORT06
07
08TABLE OF  
CONTENTS3ExECUTIVE  LETTERS
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT
LETTER FROM 
OUR CEO
Our invention of the GPU reinvented 
computer graphics and set computing 
on a new trajectory. GPU computing 
has since evolved to advance the 
fields of high performance computing 
and artificial intelligence. And those 
technologies, in turn, are empowering 
scientists, doctors, creators, and 
engineers - the da Vincis and 
Einsteins of our age - to create 
positive change in the world.
High-performance computers are 
essential instruments of scientific 
discovery. Supercomputers use 
intense computing power to simulate 
the world. They help us understand 
global weather patterns and seismic 
activity to prepare us for natural 
disasters. They predict the interaction 
of molecules so that we can develop 
new drugs, create hyper-efficient 
batteries, and design new materials 
that improve the safety of our cars 
and airplanes.
NVIDIA GPUs make these discoveries 
possible by accelerating the 
performance of computers while 
reducing the energy they consume. 
NVIDIA powers 22 of the 25 most 
energy-efficient supercomputers. Better energy efficiency goes beyond 
making supercomputers more 
sustainable - it reduces their costs 
and democratizes access to them, 
empowering a new generation of 
scientific explorers.
In healthcare, researchers use our 
systems to develop AI techniques 
that improve disease diagnosis and 
increase the success of targeted 
treatments. We created the NVIDIA 
Clara computing platform, named  
for Red Cross founder Clara Barton, 
to bring AI to medical imaging 
systems and make it easier for 
all hospitals to adopt them. The 
American College of Radiologists 
is making Clara available to nearly 
40,000 radiologists to develop and 
deploy AI at their own institutions.
Autonomous machines, perhaps the 
greatest expression of AI’s potential, 
can protect and improve our lives as 
well. The life-saving potential of self-
driving cars is especially powerful. 
NVIDIA DRIVE is a platform to deploy 
autonomous vehicles, combining 
a powerful in-car computer, AI 
software, and a VR-based simulator 
to train cars in the safety of the data 
center. Automakers like Toyota, Volvo, 
and Mercedes-Benz are using DRIVE 
to make vehicles that sense their 
environments both inside and outside 
the car to keep drivers safe.Self-driving cars are only part of the 
autonomous machines story. Our 
work in robotics will revolutionize 
manufacturing, agriculture, and 
space exploration. Robots can play 
an important role in assisting people 
in their homes and at work, and in 
making our cities safer, more secure, 
and more efficient.
These inventions and ideas help 
NVIDIA contribute to society and 
industry at the global level. But 
the people of NVIDIA also share a 
commitment to improving our local 
communities. We balance our near-
term business goals with long-term 
commitments to improving lives, 
protecting our environment, and 
creating a workplace where bright 
minds of all cultures can build their 
families and do their life’s work.
Making a positive impact on the  
world is the highest purpose a 
company can have. We’re honored 
that we can help create a better future 
for generations to come.
Jensen Huang  
CEO and Co-Founder  
NVIDIA01
4
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  EXECUTIVE  LETTERS
LETTER 
FROM EVP OF 
OPERATIONS
Our mission is to develop 
revolutionary technology that 
improves lives, and this is reflected 
in our two most fundamental 
commitments: to integrate social and 
environmental responsibility into all 
aspects of our company, and to create 
value for all our stakeholders. 
Corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) is integral to our mission, our 
unique culture, and our business 
success. We strive to provide a great 
place to work and partner with our 
employees to develop innovative 
products. Through our business 
practices, we work hard to safeguard 
and protect the human rights of all 
workers in our supply chain. We aim 
to build the most energy-efficient 
technologies possible, and we 
conduct our business using sound 
environmental practices with an eye 
toward mitigating climate change. We 
invest in and give back to our local 
communities and global society  
at large. 
Each year, we reassess our CSR 
priorities to inform our strategy. At 
the helm of this work is a committee 
of employees that meets regularly 
and works closely with executive 
staff. Together, they identify our 
annual priority issues by integrating feedback from key stakeholders and 
prioritizing risks and opportunities. 
Our board of directors oversees our 
CSR efforts and is briefed annually on 
risks and progress.
Our annual disclosures adhere to 
the Global Reporting Initiative’s 
Sustainability Reporting Standards, 
and we continue to align our  
social impact activities with the 
United Nations’ Sustainable 
Development Goals. 
Our CSR priorities revolve around 
the following key business areas: 
competitiveness and business  
model, cybersecurity, innovation, 
supply chain and product quality, 
talent management strategy, and 
trade issues. To execute these 
priorities, our efforts follow three 
primary objectives: 
 >Operational efficiency  
and excellence
 >Employee recruitment  
and retention
 >Risk and reputation management
With these objectives in mind, we:
 >Design power-efficient products 
with a strong social impact
 >Increase employee diversity and 
foster inclusion
 >Minimize risk in our supply  
chain and uphold the highest 
quality standards
 >Engage in opportunities to reduce 
our energy footprint and address 
climate change
 >Evaluate emerging risks and 
opportunities related to growing 
our brand
 >Set goals and monitor our 
progress toward them
We’ve made strong progress against 
these objectives over the past few 
years. Highlights include:  
 >Growth in our self-driving car and 
AI healthcare businesses
 >Continued development of 
generous parental benefits, 
including expansive leave of 
absence policies and coverage for 
adoption, in vitro fertilization, and 
egg freezing >A performance-based award 
system for suppliers that  
includes their active efforts  
to improve social and 
environmental performance
 >Adding CSR to the oversight 
responsibilities of the  
Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee of our 
Board of Directors
 >Holding annual meetings with  
top shareholders to provide 
updates on our CSR efforts  
and performance
 >Continued recognition in 
innovation, CSR, and “best  
place to work” rankings, including 
Fast Company’s Most Innovative 
Companies, Fortune’s Best 
Places to Work, the Bloomberg 
Gender Equality Index,  
JUST100, and the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index 
Our ability to tackle these challenges 
enables NVIDIA to increase our 
operational effectiveness, attract and 
retain top talent, manage our risk, 
and bring greater long-term value to 
our stakeholders.
Thank you for joining us on this 
journey to create a better, more 
sustainable future. We promise  
to continue pushing the limits  
of possibility.  
Sincerely,
Debora Shoquist  
EVP, Operations  
NVIDIA
5
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT02PRIORITIES
SETTING 
PRIORITIES
We update our issue analysis each 
year to ensure that our priorities 
continue to align with stakeholder 
expectations, market trends, and 
business risks and opportunities.
In FY19, we identified  
six priority issues as  
essential to our continued 
business success. 
These issues reflect the 
topics of highest concern to 
NVIDIA and our stakeholders:
 >Competitiveness /  
Business model
 >Cybersecurity
 >Innovation
 >Supply chain management / 
Product quality
 >Talent Strategy
 >Trade IssuesA strategic focus on these areas 
enables us to build a more agile, 
future-oriented company. We 
annually implement several 
initiatives related to our priorities, 
each of which provides varying 
levels of return according to the 
business goals assigned to it.
Guided by the leadership of NVIDIA’s 
Board of Directors, we continue 
to find new ways to integrate CSR 
efforts into our business strategy. 
The Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee of our 
Board oversees our CSR efforts 
and keeps current on our execution 
strategy. The full Board is informed 
annually about our CSR priorities.To arrive at our internal priorities 
and ensure that our executive 
leadership’s views are reflected in 
the analysis, we conduct individual 
interviews with members of our 
executive staff. During these 
interviews, we evaluate the risk 
factors identified in enterprise 
risk discussions with NVIDIA 
executives and in reports filed with 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission. This year, we added 
a new level of engagement: an 
internal survey to a select group of 
subject matter experts. The insights 
gleaned from this engagement 
added new depth to our company 
analysis and confirmed that our 
internal priorities are aligned. 
6
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  PRIORITIES
We mapped the results of our 
internal and external analyses 
on a matrix to highlight the 
most important issues from the 
perspective of our internal and 
external stakeholders.
The matrix includes the entire list 
of issues considered for inclusion 
in the analysis. The issues with the 
highest priority are shown in the 
top right highlighted quadrant of the 
matrix above.The findings from our FY19 priorities assessment resulted in the 
following changes from the prior year: 
 >To reflect the current dynamic operating environment, we  
added two priority issues: competitiveness/business model and  
trade issues . 
 >On the stakeholder analysis, employee engagement  and waste  
increased in priority, and transport and logistics  decreased slightly 
in relationship to other issues. 
 >On the company analysis, public policy engagement  increased in 
importance to our stakeholders.
Our priorities are addressed in subsequent sections of this report. We 
define each issue, discuss why it’s important to NVIDIA and how we 
manage it, and disclose any relevant performance data.
HIGH LOWSTAKEHOLDER CONCERNGHG Emissions and Climate Change
Transport and Logistics
Recycling and E-wasteEmployee Engagement
Facilities Management
Product SafetyTransparencyBusiness ContinuityTrade IssuesSupply Chain Management/
Product Quality
CybersecurityCompetitive/
Business ModelTalent StrategyInnovation
Customer Relations
Ethical Conduct
Anti-corruptionSupplier Working Conditions
Diversity and Inclusion
Employee Health and Safety
Societal Impacts of
Artiﬁcial IntelligenceWater
Envioronmental
Impact of Products Materials AvailabilityCommunity Engagement
ComplianceCorporate GovernancePublic Policy Engagement
Supplier Environmental
Management
Brand and ReputationWasteEnergy
IMPACT ON COMPANYLOW HIGHNVIDIA FY20 CSR PRIORITIES7
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  PRIORITIES
GOAL #3:  Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
ISSUE INITIATIVES
AI-Driven 3D Cell Modeling : AI is completely reshaping life sciences, medicine, and healthcare as  
an industry. Researchers are harnessing the power of NVIDIA GPU and AI computing technology to  
create the first predictive 3D model of a live human cell. Using the model, scientists can digitally 
visualize and even manipulate cell behavior on a computer screen. These GPU-accelerated capabilities 
give the model the potential to impact drug discovery, disease research, and basic studies involving 
human cells.
The Future of Radiology: NVIDIA Clara Platform:  NVIDIA ClaraTM is a computational platform that 
makes it easy for developers to build, manage, and deploy intelligent medical imaging workflows and 
instruments. From improving processing speed and image quality to AI-enabled clinical workflows, 
medical imaging developers are adopting the Clara platform to improve patient outcomes and reduce 
the cost of care. NVIDIA is working with dozens of healthcare companies, startups and research 
hospitals to implement Clara, transforming the field of radiology by saving time and money for 
healthcare organizations while improving patient care.
NVIDIA Xavier, World’s First Single-Chip Self-Driving Car Processor : Safety is the whole point of 
autonomous vehicles. And it starts with a new class of computer, a new type of software, and a new 
breed of chips. x avier’s safety architecture was created over several years by more than 300 architects, 
designers, and safety experts who analyzed over 150 safety-related modules. Inventing technology  
that will one day eliminate accidents on our roads is one of NVIDIA’s most important endeavors.  
We are inspired to tackle this grand computing challenge that will have great social impact.MAPPING TO THE UNITED NATIONS  
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
GOAL #5:  Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
ISSUE INITIATIVES
Recruiting 9 to 5, What AI Way to Make a Living : Silicon Valley-based Eightfold is changing recruitment 
and retention with its artificial intelligence (AI)-powered talent management platform. Through the 
use of algorithms, Eightfold also offers diversity help for recruiters. The diversity function allows 
recruiters to blind screen—remove gender and ethnicity barriers—in order to reduce bias in their 
recruiting process and increase applicant diversity.
Grace Hopper Conference Inspires Women in Computing, Technology:  AI and how it can help 
machines and humans unite in tackling some of society’s biggest challenges was our theme in Houston, 
where 40 NVIDIANs recently joined the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing conference. 
Women at every stage of their careers attended highly technical sessions that covered AI, computer 
systems engineering, and data science.8
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  PRIORITIES
GOAL #8:  Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive 
employment, and decent work for all
ISSUE INITIATIVES
Keep on Rocking: Startup Develops AI for Mapping Tunnels and Mineshafts : The Toronto-based 
startup RockMass is developing an NVIDIA AI-powered mapping platform that can help engineers 
assess tunnel stability in mines and construction. The startup’s Mapper AI device now offers a safer 
way to keep engineers farther away from a possible tunnel collapse and offers a faster system for 
gathering and processing data.
GOAL #9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and 
foster innovation
ISSUE INITIATIVES
How AI and Machine Learning are Advancing Academic Research : 
Universities and research institutes around the world are key drivers of discovery and innovation, and 
professors and researchers are looking for answers to the biggest questions facing each academic 
discipline. With powerful GPU computing resources, academics can use AI, machine learning, and data 
science to more swiftly advance knowledge in fields such as astrophysics and astronomy, biology, earth 
and climate science, humanities, medicine, and physics.
GOAL #11:  Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
ISSUE INITIATIVES
Safety is What Drives Us: Introducing the NVIDIA Self-Driving Safety Report : Self-driving cars will 
dramatically change the future of transportation, making driving safer, reducing carbon emissions,  
and transforming how cities are designed. At the heart of autonomous driving technology is safety, 
and we have integrated it into every step of the development process. Our Self-Driving Safety Report  
details how computing performance translates to safety at all stages, from initial data collection to 
public road testing. 
Clean Machines: Startup’s Bots Sweep Up Corporate Campuses : Thanks to robotics, outdoor 
maintenance is becoming more sophisticated, safer, and less costly. Silicon Valley-based ViaBot has 
created an entirely autonomous robot that uses sensors, cameras, object detection algorithms, and 
NVIDIA Jetson-powered navigation capabilities to clean and recycle waste in outdoor spaces. ViaBot 
aims to serve multiple needs for maintenance outdoors with their efficient, productive, and cost-
effective robotic solution. 9
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  PRIORITIES
GOAL #11:  Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources for  
sustainable development
ISSUE INITIATIVES
No Barrier to this Reef: Dazzling Film Brings Coral to Life in GPU-Powered Museum Show : Expedition 
Reef, the San Francisco museum’s GPU-powered coral reef experience, immerses viewers in a 
dramatic 3D video re-creation of reefs as they live, reproduce, and struggle to survive. Because these 
complex ecosystems demand a highly realistic approach to help people engage with them, the film 
posed unprecedented challenges for the museum’s visualization studio, which relied heavily on NVIDIA 
Quadro GPUs (the same technology used by movie studios). With dazzling visual effects, Expedition 
Reef seeks to highlight the vital role coral reefs play in the world’s ecosystems.
GOAL #11:  Protect, restore, and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems,  
sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and  
halt biodiversity loss
ISSUE INITIATIVES
AI Offering Fertile Ground for Biodiversity Informatics : Researchers at Smithsonian Institution and 
Costa Rica Institute of Technology are using a combination of big data analytics, computer vision,  
and GPUs to deepen science’s access and understanding of botanical information. Their use of  
GPU-accelerated deep learning promises to hasten the work of researchers, who discover and 
describe about 2,000 species of plants each year and need to compare them against the nearly  
400,000 known species. Both sets of researchers expect their work to fuel a revolution in the field  
of biodiversity informatics.10STAkEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT 03
Engaging our diverse stakeholders on 
important issues is integral to how we 
do business. We define stakeholders 
as entities or individuals who can be 
affected by NVIDIA and whose actions 
can affect the company, and we 
engage with them in numerous ways 
on a variety of topics through the year. 
We rely on our annual priority issue 
assessment to help us understand the 
issues that matter most to them. This 
allows us to focus our engagement with stakeholders and transparently 
respond to their concerns. Although 
we do not have a formal stakeholder 
advisory panel for CSR issues, at least 
one member of the CSR Committee 
evaluates each stakeholder request to 
determine what type of response  
is appropriate.
The chart below lists our 
stakeholders, how we engage with 
them, and examples of how we 
interacted with them in FY19:   
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of 
the Board oversees CSR.
The full Board receives our annual priority  
issues assessment.We presented our CSR strategy, programs, and risks to the 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
In early FY20, we provided a diversity and inclusion overview 
to the Committee.
COMMUNITIES
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
We interact with local governments to receive approval and 
update community members on any facility construction.
We invest in communities where we have offices through the 
NVIDIA Foundation.We engaged with the Santa Clara, Calif., and Bangalore, 
India, county departments on the development of a new 
corporate campus.
See the NVIDIA Foundation annual report  for 
FY19 activities.
CUSTOMERS / DEVELOPERS
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
Through the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), we 
provide customers with self-assessment questionnaires and 
collaborate with them through various working groups. 
We engage with customers directly through quarterly 
business reviews and CSR surveys.  
For developers, we facilitate interaction through targeted 
discussion forums and global developer conferences. We 
also provide courses in parallel programming; enhancement 
tools for debugging, performance, and testing; access to 
highly skilled engineers and specialists who provide custom 
services and co-design industry-specific applications; 
and financial support to university researchers in various 
scientific disciplines.We received several compliance requests per week from 
customers regarding product and social compliance, legal, 
and regulatory issues. 
We conducted an analysis of customer contracts to confirm 
that our priorities align with their requirements. 
We worked directly with customers to report our supplier 
status related to conflict minerals. 
We responded to several customer surveys and maintained 
our Sony Green Partner certification for the 13th year.
We hosted developer conferences in seven countries. We 
celebrated reaching 1 million developers  in FY19.   
11
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  STAKEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT
EMPLOYEES AND PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYEES
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
We engage employees via a global employee survey every 
18-24 months. 
We administer an online suggestion box and facilitate a 
direct channel between employees and our CEO or any 
executive staff member through the submission of questions 
(anonymously, if preferred) prior to our quarterly company 
meeting, which our CEO can respond to onstage.
We engage with prospective employees through the careers 
section of NVIDIA’s website and through university, diversity, 
and professional recruiting events. 
We also offer an employee referral program.Our latest global employee survey from November 2017 
yielded a 95 percent response rate.
We held discussions between our CEO and resource 
communities (African-Americans, Hispanics, women, 
veterans, and early career employees), which resulted 
in significant expansion of our parenting benefits to fund 
adoptions, in vitro fertilization, and egg freezing. 
We reached 47,000 underrepresented candidates at 
university and professional recruiting events.
We created a video series about the societal impact of 
NVIDIA’s technology for employees and external audiences. 
We increased outreach to underrepresented candidates 
through an expanded presence at university and 
professional recruiting events. See Diversity and Inclusion  
in the Social section for FY19 interactions with prospective 
employees.
GOVERNMENT / PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
We educate policymakers on AI technology and the 
AI enterprise space, translating complex topics into a 
conceptual framework for policy.
We amplify our work in areas that resonate with non-
technology-focused policymakers, and work with other 
educational and industry groups to follow the same blueprint.
We demonstrate our technology at events in Washington, DC 
to emphasize the societal benefits of AI.
We collaborate with like-minded companies and 
organizations to create working groups of technologically 
savvy policymakers, introducing them to our experts  
and executives.
We facilitate meetings between our autonomous driving team 
and regulators such as NHTSA to discuss our technology and 
the policy implications.
We reinforce the tech policy ecosystem, positioning  
NVIDIA as a source of expertise and a good faith, 
collaborative partner.We deepened our relationship with the Congressional AI 
Caucus, the Congressional Tech Staff Association, the 
Information Technology Industry Foundation, and key 
officials in Congress and the Administration. 
We participated in the White House AI Summit  and the re-
evaluation of the National AI R&D Strategic Plan.
We generated attendance by several federal agencies to our 
third annual GPU Technology Conference  in Washington, DC.
We convened policymakers  from Congress and six 
government departments for policy panels at GTC DC. This 
included bringing together a group of high-profile regulators 
for a discussion around how the industry can safely and 
effectively deploy self-driving technology . 
At GTC San Jose, we hosted an interview session 
with Representative Jerry McNerney, co-chair of the 
Congressional AI Caucus.
We worked with China and the EU to navigate geopolitics and 
local regulations, and provided feedback to inquiries on the 
technical and economic implications of their proposed rules.12
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  STAKEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT
NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
We partner with NGOs through initiatives like the RBA and 
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade.We provided information to the Business & Human Rights 
Resource Center for inclusion in its Know the Chain ICT 
benchmark , which addresses human rights practices.
RESEARCH/RATINGS ORGANIZATIONS
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
We respond to regular survey requests on environmental, 
social, and governance practices.We were featured for a fifth year as a member of the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index and remained on the FTSE4Good 
index, Bloomberg Global Equality Index, Global 100, the 100 
Best Corporate Citizens list, and Forbes’ JUST 100 ranking. 
We debuted on Equileap’s Gender Equality Index, and were 
featured again in RobecoSAM’s Sustainability Yearbook. 
We were also featured for the third year on Fortune’s 100 
Best Companies to Work For list at #38.
Overall, we interacted with 10 research/ratings orgs: 
Corporate k nights, FTSE4Good, ISS, MSCI, Oekom, RepTrak, 
RobecoSAM, Sustainalytics, Trucost, and Vigeo Eiris.
SHAREHOLDERS
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
Since 2007, we participate in the CDP. 
We respond to individual shareholder requests as they  
arise, and we hold annual governance and ESG calls with  
top shareholders.We participated in the CDP for the eleventh year, and 
achieved an A- for our investor score and a B- for water use. 
We presented CSR issues to shareholders holding 26% 
in aggregate of our common stock during the company’s 
annual outreach meetings. Topics covered included: 
societal impacts of AI, diversity and inclusion, and Board 
involvement in CSR.
SUPPLIERS
ENGAGEMENT APPROACH FY19 INTERACTIONS
We engage with suppliers through quarterly business 
reviews and allocate points to their performance scores 
commensurate with their efforts to participate in social 
and environmental initiatives. Through the RBA, we analyze 
suppliers’ self-assessment documentation and request 
periodic audits. 
We reach out to suppliers directly on issues related to 
product compliance and conflict minerals.We continued to conduct an ongoing evaluation of our 
suppliers using RBA analysis tools.
We sent an average of 21 requests to suppliers each week. 13
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT04GOVERNANCE
BOARD 
GOVERNANCE
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Board composition, independence 
of committees and leadership, 
anti-takeover measures,  
Board and named executive  
officer compensation
NVIDIA, including its Board of 
Directors, is committed to operating 
under sound principles of corporate 
governance. Our corporate 
governance structure ensures 
robust Board and management 
accountability and transparency to 
our shareholders, and promotes 
good decision-making now and for 
the future. To ensure that long-
term interests are being served, 
our Board oversees management 
performance. Our overarching code 
of conduct, financial team code of 
conduct, corporate governance 
policies, Board committee charters, 
certificate of incorporation,and bylaws form the framework for 
governance at NVIDIA.
We have 12 directors on our 
Board, and as of April 2019, 11 of 
our 12 directors (91 percent) are 
independent. The sole exception is 
Jensen Huang, who is our founder, 
president, and chief executive 
officer. Our bylaws and corporate 
governance policies permit the 
roles of chairperson of the Board 
and CEO to be filled by the same or 
different individuals, which gives 
the Board flexibility in determining 
what is best for the company. 
At this time, NVIDIA has a lead 
director, Mark Perry, rather than a 
chairperson of the Board. In FY19, 
all directors attended at least 75 
percent of meetings of the Board 
and committee on which  
they served.
Director compensation is reviewed 
by the Board’s Compensation 
Committee, in consultation with 
a third-party firm and evaluation 
of compensation from peer 
groups, and ultimately approved 
by our Board. We design our GOVERNANCE  
SNAPSHOT
11
of our 12 Board members  
are independent
DECLASSIFIED  
BOARD STRUCTURE
and all Board members  
serve one-year terms
INDEPENDENT  
DIRECTORS
compose our Board’s  
audit, compensation, and  
nominating and corporate  
governance committees
MAJORITY VOTE
practices have been  
adopted voluntarily
SUCCESSION  
PLANNING
for the position of  
Chief Executive Officer is in place
ANNUAL  
PERFORMANCE  
EVALUATION
of Board and Board committees
PUBLIC  
DISCLOSURE OF
director nomination process 
proxy access approach to  
Board diversity
18%
of our independent  
Board members are female 
25%
of our Board members are  
underrepresented minorities 
14
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOVERNANCE
named executive officer (NEO) 
compensation program to pay 
for performance and to attract, 
motivate, and retain a high-caliber 
executive team. NEO pay is heavily 
weighted toward performance-
based variable cash and long-term 
equity awards that are earned 
only if we achieve pre-established 
corporate financial metrics. Our 
executive compensation program 
requires executives to maintain 
meaningful stock ownership, and 
a claw back policy is in place for 
performance-based compensation
COMPLIANCE
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Compliance with all applicable 
policies, laws, and regulations, 
including fines/penalties 
We view compliance as the activities 
we undertake and the systems we 
establish and maintain to ensure 
continual adherence to laws and 
requirements of governments 
and our customers that address 
environmental and social issues. 
Compliance is the baseline that establishes the minimum  
standards to which we hold 
ourselves accountable.
We are committed to comporting 
ourselves in accordance with 
the highest ethical standards 
regardless of whether there is a 
legal requirement to do so.
Governmental compliance is a 
critical component of our business 
strategy, because it involves our 
license to operate in markets where 
we want to manufacture and sell 
our products, manage offices, 
and hire employees. We comply 
with all mandatory governmental 
regulations that apply to us in 
the communities in which we do 
business. We also comply with our 
customers’ requirements in order 
to meet contractual obligations.
We employ social and 
environmental compliance 
engineers in our worldwide 
operations organization. These 
employees manage issues such 
as human rights, end-of-life 
recycling, hazardous substances, 
and conflict minerals. Our global 
legal and human resources teams receive regular guidance from legal 
counsel and industry associations 
on issues related to bribery, ethics, 
and hiring and labor practices. The 
sales operations team oversees 
our customers’ environmental, 
social, and ethics requirements, 
and works cross-functionally to 
ensure the compliance of all related 
teams. In all these functions, we 
have established mechanisms to 
maintain active compliance,  
assess our performance, and 
anticipate impending requirements 
and regulations.
ETHICAL 
CONDUCT
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Policies, systems, processes, and 
performance relating to ethical 
operation, including ethics hotline 
and whistle-blower protection
We strive to achieve the highest 
standards of ethical conduct in 
all our business dealings. Our 
charters, codes of conduct, and 
policies guide how we conduct 
ourselves in our professional 
15
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOVERNANCE
relationships toward our 
customers, partners, competitors, 
vendors, government regulators, 
shareholder, fellow employees, 
and the community at large. Our 
longstanding code of conduct  
outlines our core values and 
establishes the expectations 
we have about how we conduct 
business. This code applies to all 
our executive officers, directors, 
and employees, and we expect all 
third parties we do business with, 
including consultants, contractors, 
and other service providers, to 
act in a manner consistent with it. 
In addition, we have established 
a financial team code of conduct  
that applies to our executive 
staff, directors, and members of 
our finance, accounting, tax, and 
treasury departments. 
Our commitment to promote a 
culture of integrity means that we 
aim to foster an environment where 
everyone is expected to act ethically 
and where people can voice 
concerns without fear of retaliation. 
Any employee can confidentially 
and anonymously lodge a complaint 
about any accounting, internal control, auditing, code of conduct, 
or other matter of concern, using a 
corporate hotline, which is hosted 
by an independent third party. By 
using an external organization to 
host the hotline, we ensure our 
employees feel comfortable with 
anonymous reporting. Employees 
are encouraged to report suspected 
conflicts of interest to their 
manager or human resources 
representative or through the 
hotline. We have a strict “no 
retaliation” policy regarding reports 
of activities that run counter to our 
ethical expectations.
All NVIDIA employees receive 
ethics and sexual harassment 
training. They complete training 
on our code of conduct, which 
covers environmental and social 
responsibility issues, upon hire 
and then every two years.  As of 
April 2019, nearly 99 percent of 
employees had completed  
this training. ANTI-
CORRUPTION
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Policies, processes, and practices 
related to anti-corruption and 
anti-bribery 
Our longstanding commitment to 
doing business with integrity means 
avoiding all forms of corruption. Our 
anti-corruption practices involve 
the steps the company and its 
employees take to ethically conduct 
business and avoid negatively 
impacting our ability to work with 
customers and governments.
We specifically emphasize making 
ethical decisions, never engaging in 
bribery or insider trading, avoiding 
conflicts of interest, approaching 
competition ethically, complying 
with international trade regulations, 
practicing transparency, and 
maintaining accurate business 
records. To protect our company’s 
reputation, we have several policies 
related to these issues, and we 
expect employees to comply 
with them. Nearly 100 percent 
of employees who have frequent 
contact with customers, partners, 
and suppliers (such as those in 
sales, finance, and procurement) 
have completed additional  
global anti-bribery and anti-
corruption training.
Nearly 100 % of 
employees who have 
frequent contact 
with customers, 
partners, and 
suppliers have 
completed additional  
global anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption 
training.16NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOVERNANCE
TRANSPARENCY
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Corporate responsibility 
transparency and disclosure 
(policies, level of disclosure, 
performance), external  
assurance, and direct  
stakeholder engagement
We promote a culture at NVIDIA 
that values integrity and prioritizes 
transparency across our entire 
business. We maintain high 
levels of transparency to build 
trust in a way that supports our 
business success. In this report, 
we discuss transparency as it 
relates to environmental, social, 
and governance issues. We report 
in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative Standards at 
the Core level. Since 2012, we’ve 
engaged Trucost to assure that our 
GHG emissions data and contextual 
information in our CDP response 
meets the AA1000 standard. 
We actively work in our priority 
issue areas to address business 
risks and improve performance. 
We publish dashboards of key 
workforce, diversity, environmental, and supply chain metrics to give 
stakeholders insight intoour 
performance. Throughout the 
year, we respond to several 
requests for information from 
customers and share data directly 
with shareholders. We have also 
increased our external positioning 
by providing data about our 
performance to environmental, 
social, and governance reporting 
firms, such as Bloomberg,  
Carbon Disclosure Project, 
Corporate k nights, JUST 
Companies, MSCI, Oekom, 
RobecoSAM, and Sustainalytics. 
In FY18, NVIDIA’s internal audit 
group reviewed elements of our 
CSR program to ensure it had 
adequate governance structures. 
They benchmarked the CSR report 
against comparable companies, 
and assessed program ownership, 
monitoring, and communications. 
They also evaluated key metrics 
in the CSR report for accuracy, 
included those related to 
community giving, supply chain, 
environmental, packaging, and 
workforce. In FY19, their metrics 
evaluation focused on economic, 
environmental, and diversity  
data points.
Since 2012, 
we’ve engaged 
Trucost to assure 
that our GHG 
emissions data 
and contextual 
information in our 
CDP response 
meets the 
AA1000 standard. 17ECONOMIC
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT 05
PRIORITY:
INNOVATION
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Innovation of new products, 
technology, and operational 
practices; enabling innovation 
through support of developers 
who use NVIDIA products; 
intellectual property protection; 
research and development
The drive to innovate is embedded 
in NVIDIA’s DNA. Our invention of 
the GPU defined modern computer 
graphics and established us as 
the leader in visual computing. 
With our subsequent introduction 
of the CUDA programming model, 
we opened the parallel processing 
capabilities of the GPU for general 
purpose computing. We have 
since extended our research and 
development emphasis to the 
revolutionary field of AI. About 20 percent of our revenue 
in FY19 ($2.38 billion) funded R&D 
activities. In total, we have invested 
more than $17 billion in these 
efforts since our inception, yielding 
inventions that are essential to 
modern computing.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy 
that brings together hardware, 
system software, programmable 
algorithms, libraries, systems, and 
services to create unique value for 
the markets we serve. While the 
requirements of these end markets 
are diverse, we address them with 
a unified underlying architecture, 
leveraging our GPUs and CUDA as 
the fundamental building blocks. 
The programmable nature of our 
architecture allows us to support 
several multibillion-dollar end 
markets with the same underlying 
technology by using a variety 
of software stacks developed 
either internally or by third-party 
developers and partners. We 
specialize in markets in which GPU-based visual computing and 
accelerated computing platforms 
can provide tremendous throughput 
for applications.
Our two reportable segments — 
GPU and Tegra Processor — are 
based on a single underlying 
graphics architecture. From our 
proprietary processors, we have 
created specialized platforms that 
address four large markets where 
our expertise is critical: gaming, 
professional visualization, data 
center, and automotive.
Our GPU product brands are aimed 
at specialized markets, including 
GeForce for gamers, Quadro for 
designers, Tesla and DG x for AI  
data scientists and big data 
researchers, and GRID for cloud-
based visual computing users. Our 
Tegra brand integrates an entire 
computer onto a single chip and 
incorporates GPUs and multicore 
CPUs to drive supercomputing for 
mobile gaming and entertainment 
devices, autonomous robots, 
drones, and cars.
We continuously assess whether 
and where to seek formal protection 
for particular innovations  
and technologies, based on such 
factors as:
 >The commercial significance 
of our operations and our 
competitors’ operations in 
particular countries and regions;
 >The location in which our 
products are manufactured;
 >Our strategic technology or 
product directions in different 
countries; and the degree to 
which intellectual property 
laws exist and are meaningfully 
enforced in various jurisdictions.
MOST INNOVATIVE IN AI  NVIDIA snagged the top spot on Fast Company’s Top 10 Most Innovative 
Companies  in Artificial Intelligence18NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
PRIORITY:
BUSINESS  
MODEL AND 
COMPETITIVE -
NESS 
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Market and global competitive -
ness, including NVIDIA’s business 
model, market leadership, and 
financial success; issues that 
impact NVIDIA’s fair access to the 
market, including: anti-competi -
tive practices and global unrest
Our success depends on our ability 
to identify emerging industry 
changes and to develop new (or 
enhance our existing) products, 
services and technologies that meet 
the evolving needs of markets. Such 
activities may require considerable 
technical, financial, compliance, 
sales, and marketing investments. 
If we fail to anticipate the changing 
needs of our target markets and 
emerging technology trends, or 
if we do not appropriately adapt 
our strategy in a timely manner as market conditions evolve to exploit 
potential market opportunities, our 
business will be harmed.
We devote significant resources to 
the development of technologies 
and business offerings in markets 
where we have a limited operating 
history, such as the automotive 
and data center markets, which 
presents additional risks to  
our business. 
We must continue to develop 
the infrastructure needed to 
appropriately scale our business 
in these areas, including customer 
service and customer support. We 
must meet customer safety and 
compliance standards, which are 
subject to change. Additionally, 
we continue to make considerable 
investments in research and 
development, which may not 
produce significant revenue for 
several years, if at all. 
If our investments are unsuccessful 
and we fail to develop new products, 
services, and technologies, or 
if we focus on technologies that 
do not become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial 
condition, and results of operations 
could be adversely affected. We 
cannot assure that our strategic 
direction will result in innovative 
products and technologies that 
provide value to our customers, 
our partners, and, ultimately, our 
shareholders. 
Our full response to this issue is 
outlined in our FY19 10-K, p. 12 .
MOST ADMIRED 
COMPANIES
NVIDIA ranked first in the 
semiconductor category on 
Fortune magazine’s list of the 
Most Admired Companies.
19NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
PRIORITY:
CYBERSECURITY
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Technologies, processes, and 
practices designed to protect 
networks, computers, programs, 
and data from attack, damage,  
or unauthorized access;  
product safeguards
We define cybersecurity as 
measures designed to protect our 
IT assets from unauthorized access 
or attack. Included are NVIDIA’s 
products and the privacy of our 
customers’ and employees’ data. As 
we become aware of more frequent 
high-profile security breaches in 
business and government, and 
as new dangers arise, we remain 
committed to respecting privacy 
and implementing appropriate 
protections for any personal 
information we collect or that our 
users share with us. 
Our efforts are managed by a 
global team of cybersecurity, IT, 
engineering, and legal experts. A 
cybersecurity committee, which 
meets monthly and is driven by executive-level leaders, reviews 
metrics and evaluates emerging 
threats. We also address 
cybersecurity scenarios in our 
resilience planning, document them 
through business continuity plans, 
and follow the processes outlined in 
frameworks such as the ISO 27000 
for Information Security Standards. 
Against the backdrop of frequent 
changes and new knowledge, we 
continually evaluate and adapt our 
security measures. 
We have defined a set of actions 
for teams to initiate to determine 
the type and rigorousness of 
our response in the event of a 
cybersecurity issue. The team also 
leverages external parties, such 
as computer security firms and 
those with risk management and 
governance expertise. NVIDIA’s 
Board of Directors receives regular 
presentations on cybersecurity.
We continuously hone our 
cybersecurity and data privacy 
training to respond to new 
requirements in global  
privacy laws.
NVIDIA’s 
cybersecurity 
efforts are 
managed by a 
global team of IT, 
engineering, and 
legal experts.20NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
PRIORITY:
TRADE ISSUES
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Ability to move and sell goods 
internationally, including export 
controls, import duties, quotas, 
and other trade barriers and 
restrictions; regulatory, pricing, 
and supply chain impacts 
associated with changing political 
and trade environment; global 
recruitment activities and hiring 
for specific skillsets
Our semiconductor wafers are 
produced and packaged by third 
parties located outside of the 
United States. Revenue from 
sales outside of the United States 
accounted for 87% of total revenue 
for each of fiscal years 2019, 2018, 
and 2017. And as of January 27, 
2019, approximately 46% of our 
employees were located outside of 
the United States. The global nature of our business 
subjects us to a number of risks 
and uncertainties, which could have 
a material adverse effect on our 
business, financial condition, and 
results of operations, including: 
 >International economic and 
political conditions, unexpected 
changes in, or impositions 
of, legislative or regulatory 
requirements;
 >Differing legal standards 
with respect to protection 
of intellectual property and 
employment practices; 
 >Local business and cultural 
factors that differ from our 
normal standards and practices; 
 >Exporting or importing issues 
related to export or import 
restrictions, including deemed 
export restrictions, tariffs, 
quotas, and other trade barriers 
and restrictions;
 >Disruptions of capital and 
trading markets and currency 
fluctuations; and 
 >Increased costs due to imposition 
of climate change regulations. If our sales outside of the United 
States are delayed or cancelled 
because of any of the above  
factors, our revenue may be 
negatively impacted.
The global economy is constantly 
changing, and we are prepared to 
change with it. To that end, we use 
foreign currency forward contracts 
to mitigate the impact of foreign 
currency exchange rate movements 
on our operating expenses. And  
we continuously evaluate the 
location of our manufacturing and 
sourcing suppliers.
21NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
NVIDIA BCM PROGRAM BUSINESS CONTINUITY 
MANAGEMENT
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
NVIDIA’s ability to operate without interruption 
and robustness of business continuity systems, 
infrastructure, policies, and procedures
Business continuity management (BCM) focuses on 
protecting our core values . Our philosophy of BCM is 
to identify realistic threats and their potential impact 
to our core values and design a formal framework for 
responding. We believe that resilience can be achieved by 
embedding redundancy and diversity into our response 
framework. A BCM steering committee of four executives 
is supported by several business leaders across the 
following functions: Corporate Communications, 
Cybersecurity, Facilities, Finance, Global Security, Human 
Resources, Information Technology, and Operations. Each 
function has a plan to identify and address potential risks. 
These efforts are supported by robust infrastructure, 
systems, policies, and procedures, and are designed  
to mitigate risk and protect the safety and trust of  
our employees and customers when unexpected events 
such as cyberattack, business disruption, or natural 
disaster occur. 
We believe that BCM is critical to minimizing financial 
and reputational impacts. By anticipating the likelihood 
of severe events, we can mitigate these risks and ensure 
that the company does not endure unnecessary damages.CORE
VALUESSTEERING
COMMITTEE
BCM TEAMIDENTIFY
RESPOND
RECOVER
22NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
CUSTOMER 
RELATIONS
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Customer satisfaction; customer 
relationship management, 
including privacy
Our customers include businesses 
and consumers. We view our 
commitment to positive customer 
relations in terms of the role we 
play as a responsible supplier, 
our commitment to our reseller 
partners and their customers, and to 
consumers who we sell to directly. 
We support customers through a 
comprehensive  customer support  
site and several NVIDIA-hosted 
product  forums  and  communities . 
Our customer service team tracks 
interactions with consumers as 
they occur and shares bi-weekly 
satisfaction reports internally. We 
measure customer satisfaction in 
several ways and use these metrics to 
help promote experiences that delight 
our customers. Measurements 
include customer satisfaction rate, 
percentage of support incidents filed, 
closed incident survey response rate, 
and referral rate. 
Our customer support organization is 
on the front line of communications 
with our national and international 
partners, working with their 
engineering teams as they test 
NVIDIA products in their systems and 
devices. For partners that embed 
our hardware in their products, 
quality is monitored through ISO 
9000 certification. We engage with 
strategic suppliers through quarterly 
business reviews, and business 
allocation decisions are influenced by 
quarterly performance.
Our support organization has taken 
steps to dramatically reduce the 
time it takes for our software team 
to incorporate customer feedback, 
enabling technicians to respond quickly and increase customer 
satisfaction. We also use data 
gathered from our customer  
forums to give our research and 
development organizations a steady 
stream of feedback about what is 
working and what improvements our 
customers want.
We robustly support developers 
who want to create innovative 
applications with our products. We 
give developers diverse resources, 
including courses in parallel 
programming; enhancement tools for 
debugging, performance, and testing; 
access to highly skilled engineers 
and specialists who provide custom 
services and co-design industry-
specific applications; and financial 
support to university researchers in 
various scientific disciplines. Our GPU 
Technology Conference  advances 
global awareness of accelerated 
computing, computer graphics, high 
performance computing, AI, and  
deep learning. 
Our customers include some of the 
world’s largest electronics, consumer 
brand, and automotive companies. 
Consequently, we have integrated 
throughout our global operations the 
standards outlined in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of 
Conduct covering labor, environment, 
health and safety, ethics, and 
management systems. We use these 
standards as our management 
approach for our supply chain. 
Inquiries from our original  
equipment manufacturer customers 
have increased in line with our 
focus on supplier responsibility 
and environmental sustainability. 
Requests for information have 
predominantly related to conflict 
minerals, environmental compliance, 
quality, consumer satisfaction,  
and ethics.
To manage these inquiries and 
requests, we employ quarterly 
business reviews with key customers, 
and partner with them on various 
initiatives through the RBA. Certain 
customers assign points on their 
scorecards to environmental, social, 
and governance performance. 
Customers who are RBA members 
monitor our performance through 
tools provided by that organization, 
such as self-assessment 
questionnaires, validated audit 
processes, and tracking tools for 
carbon, water, and waste.
GTC is a global conference providing training, insights, and direct access to experts on the hottest 
topics in computing today. Thousands of researchers and professionals attend to learn the latest 
on the most dynamic topics related to high performance computing, AI, and deep learning. 23NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
BRAND AND 
REPUTATION
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Semiconductor and technology 
industry perception and 
reputation, and how that 
influences NVIDIA’s business 
activities; brand reputation and 
market positioning; integrity of 
brand and customer perception; 
CSR performance as an indicator 
of reputation
As outlined in our 10-K , several 
factors can impact our brand and 
reputation. Every day, we build 
a better business by acting with 
integrity in all we do. Through our 
CSR efforts and reporting, we’ve 
built trust and credibility with 
our stakeholders as we disclose 
the metrics they expect. We’re 
recognized as a great place to 
work by current and prospective 
employees, as a respected 
supplier to customers, and as a 
successful long-term investment by 
shareholders. 
In 2018, we topped a ranking of 
50 tech companies in the  U.S. 
Technology RepTrak report  issued 
by the Reputation Institute and were 
the only company to receive its 
highest ranking of “excellent.”  The report noted how we connect 
our technology and innovations to 
the projects we support through  
our CSR.
Our annual CSR report forms 
the foundation of our CSR 
communications and is used by all 
stakeholders to find the information 
they need. It is a resource for 
several ratings, rankings, and 
indexes we participate in each year. 
These third-party endorsements 
help boost our reputation and 
brand as a strong corporate citizen. 
Notable recognitions we have 
received include: the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index, CDP, 100 Best 
Corporate Citizens, Human Rights 
Watch’s Corporate Equality Index, 
the Bloomberg Gender Equality 
Index, and the JUST100. 
The stakeholder section lists all of 
the ratings/rankings requests we 
received in FY19. We have seen a 
dramatic increase in the number 
of requests to participate in these 
lists in the last few years as CSR 
becomes a central element of 
companies’ strategies.AWARDS AND 
ACCOLADES
We have been recognized 
over the past few years in 
several prominent business 
publications for innovation 
and leadership, notably: 
 > Fortune  
100 Best Places to Work 
 > Fast Company  
Most Innovative Companies
 > Barron’s  
World’s Best CEOs 
 > Fortune  
Businessperson of the Year
 > Harvard Business Review  
Best Performing CEOs in 
the World
24NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
PUBLIC POLICY 
ENGAGEMENT
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Transparency of political 
contributions and lobbying 
efforts, including participation 
through industry organizations; 
engagement with policy makers
Public policy engagement enables 
us to affect government action 
and provide thought leadership 
to global governments on 
issues that directly affect our 
business. It is also a platform for 
educating policymakers through 
demonstrations of our technology, 
amplifying our work in targeted 
areas, and collaborating with 
various organizations on issues of 
shared interest. We focus our public 
policy activities in AI, specifically 
to promote the investment in core 
AI research and to support the 
development of autonomous driving 
technologies and infrastructure. Core AI Research
In FY19, as part of a panel focused 
on the current state of AI and 
barriers to government adoption, 
we provided testimony  to the 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Subcommittee on Information 
Technology. We encouraged the 
federal government to increase 
research funding in organizations 
such as the National Science 
Foundation, National Institutes 
of Health, and Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency, and 
to adopt AI to boost the nation’s 
economy and improve government 
services through the development 
of faster supercomputers. We 
also submitted comments  for the 
National AI R&D Strategic Plan.Autonomous Driving 
Regulations
We have participated in sessions 
with the U.S. Senate Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation related to AI’s role 
in autonomous driving. During 
our FY19 developer conference in 
Washington, we convened  policy, 
tech, and automotive leaders to 
discuss how the transportation 
industry can safely and effectively 
deploy self-driving technology 
through collaboration, consumer 
education, and an emphasis on 
safety. At the conference we issued 
a Self-Driving Safety Report  
that highlighted how GPUs create 
functionally safe self-driving 
systems and how we ensure  
several lines of defense and 
redundancy in our self-driving 
software systems. Self-driving car 
safety is discussed in more detail in 
the Societal Impact  of GPUs  
section of this report. 
We also brief congressional 
staff and leadership, including 
primary decision-makers with 
jurisdiction at the Energy and 
Commerce Committee and the 
Senate Commerce Committee, 
on our technology and the safety 
work behind it. We enhance our 
reach in public policy through 
participation in organizations 
such as the Consumer Technology 
Association, Entertainment 
Software Association, Information 
Technology Industry Foundation, 
and the Semiconductor Industry 
Association, among others. 
We do not have a political action 
committee. In FY19, we did not 
perform lobbying activity or expend 
resources that required registration 
under the Lobbying Disclosure Act.
At our 2018 developer conference in Washington, DC, U.S. Chief Information Officer Suzette Kent 
said the federal government is investing in AI throughout the system, including agriculture, trans -
portation, healthcare, and cybersecurity.
ACCELERATING AI ADOPTION  NVIDIA 
leaders use our popular blog to promote 
causes of company interest, such as the 
government’s adoption of AI. 25SOCIAL
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT 06
PRIORITY:
SUPPLY CHAIN 
MANAGEMENT 
AND PRODUCT 
QUALITY
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Policies and practices with 
regard to overall supply chain 
management and product quality, 
including auditing and ensuring 
that suppliers meet minimum 
standards or requirements; 
supply chain transparency and 
disclosure; supplier diversity
We hold ourselves and our 
suppliers to the highest standards 
of behavior. We engage suppliers 
that share our values and then 
collaborate with them to build a 
stronger, more responsible supply 
chain that satisfies our customers’ 
product quality expectations.Product Quality
To ensure that we meet or 
exceed our customers’ quality 
expectations, we assess the 
performance of our product 
families through indicators that 
measure customer DPPM levels 
(defective parts per million). We  
are ISO 9001 certified and 
have been issued a “letter of 
conformance” to the ISO/TS 16949 
automotive quality standard. 
Internally, a cross-functional team 
manages product quality issues. To 
verify a product failure, customer 
quality engineering and customer 
program management engage the 
customer. Once a failure is verified, 
we address the issue using the 
Eight Discipline (8D) problem-
solving methodology.Supply Chain 
Management
We do not directly manufacture 
the semiconductor wafers or 
printed circuit boards used in our 
products, nor do we manufacture 
the company’s branded devices. 
Instead, we partner with world-
class suppliers for all phases of the 
manufacturing process, including 
wafer fabrication, assembly, 
testing, and packaging. We closely 
manage our supply chain to deliver 
innovative products in a socially and 
environmentally conscious manner. 
Taiwan Semiconductor 
Manufacturing Company (TSMC) 
and Samsung manufacture our 
semiconductor wafers. Our two 
main contract manufacturers for 
company- or partner-branded 
devices are Foxconn and BYD. 
Foxconn, Samsung, and TSMC are 
RBA members. We also contract 
with manufacturers to build, test, 
and distribute our branded devices. 
SUPPLIER 
COMPLIANCE
NVIDIA manufacturing 
suppliers must comply with 
the following: 
 >NVIDIA’s Conflict  
Minerals Policy
 >EU RoHS
 >EU REACH 
 >EU End of Life Vehicles 
 >Halogen Free/Low Halogen
 >ISO 14001:2015 
 >OHSAS 18001  
(GB/T 28001-2011 in China)26
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
We require all suppliers to comply 
with the RBA Code of Conduct and 
use the Code as a platform to go 
above and beyond compliance. 
We’ve been RBA members since 
2007 and have adopted the RBA 
Code and integrated its elements 
into our program, including 
auditing critical suppliers and 
conducting internal assessments 
to confirm that we are addressing 
all aspects of responsible supply 
chain management. Our employees 
are engaged in RBA workgroups 
relevant to our supply chain 
operations. We also comply with 
the RBA’s guidance regarding 
stakeholder grievances  
related to our social or  
environmental performance.
Our supplier specification  
outlines our compliance 
requirements and covers all 
manufacturers in our supply chain. 
The assessment process involves 
using the RBA online system to 
vet suppliers against product 
compliance industry standards, 
conflict minerals data, and RBA 
Code compliance. For strategic suppliers, business 
allocation decisions are influenced 
by quarterly business review (QBR) 
performance. Strategic suppliers 
include those who produce 
or handle NVIDIA production 
material, non-critical suppliers for 
whom we closely manage quality 
requirements, suppliers who design 
our branded products, and those we 
are required to work with based on 
customer agreements.
The specification agreements are 
deployed and tracked through 
the QBR process to make certain 
that these suppliers uphold our 
requirements. Five of 100 QBR 
points are allocated to CSR issues, 
and requirements vary by quarter. 
Each quarter, overall supplier 
assessment is reviewed by product 
category and performance is ranked. Aside from RBA, we also participate 
in organizations focused on issues 
relevant to supplier responsibility, 
such as the Public-Private Alliance 
for Responsible Minerals Trade 
and the Association Connecting 
Electronics Industries.
We require all suppliers to comply with 
the Responsible Business Alliance Code of 
Conduct and use the code as a platform to 
go above and beyond compliance.27
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Working Conditions
We are committed to upholding 
the rights of workers throughout 
our supply chain and to treating 
everyone with dignity and respect. 
Freely chosen employment is a 
significant issue that many supply 
chains are facing. In addition 
to supporting and aligning with 
the RBA Code regarding freely 
chosen labor, we follow the legal 
requirements of the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and U k 
Modern Slavery Act 2015. We track 
issues through the RBA Validated 
Audit Process and work directly 
with suppliers to implement any 
corrective actions. When  
violations are discovered, we 
require suppliers to return hiring 
fees to workers. Policies related 
to working conditions (including 
slavery and trafficking) can be 
found on our website . Environmental 
Management
We require all suppliers to be 
ISO14001 certified. We monitor 
the environmental footprint of 
our suppliers and work with them 
through the supplier management 
process on goal setting and 
activities they can undertake 
to reduce their environmental 
impact. We calculate carbon, 
water, and waste data of all silicon 
manufacturers and systems 
contract manufacturers to 
determine carbon emissions and 
water consumption per product and 
per financial outlay.
We participate in the CDP 
Supply Chain program (our 
current score is B-) and the RBA 
online environmental survey 
on carbon, water, and waste. 
We also participate in the RBA 
environmental sustainability 
workgroup. 
See Materials Availability  
in the Environment section  
for information about 
responsible minerals.  
See the Supply Chain 
Performance  section for 
an overview of our RBA 
compliance and metrics 
related to supplier working 
conditions (working 
conditions, hours, wages, 
child labor, and freedom of 
association) and supplier 
environmental management 
(environmental management 
systems, data collection, and 
improvement programs). 28
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
PRIORITY:
TALENT 
STRATEGY
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Global talent identification 
and selection, including global 
recruitment activities and 
hiring for specific skillsets; 
leadership development, including 
professional development and 
training to build and maintain an 
internal pipeline of leadership
We believe that talented employees 
are our greatest assets, and they 
play a key role in creating long-
term value for our stakeholders. 
Our ultimate success and our 
ability to compete are substantially 
dependent on how well we 
identify, hire, train, and retain 
highly qualified key personnel. In 
the technology industry’s highly 
competitive talent market, we  
aim to differentiate ourselves 
through a workplace culture that 
celebrates drive, commitment,  
and achievement. We position our company to attract 
the industry’s most creative and 
gifted individuals, and they take 
pride in our dynamic workplace. 
Our teams of world-class engineers 
and developers thrive in high-
performance environments where 
passion is expected, talent is 
recognized, and collaboration  
is valued. 
Fortune has recognized NVIDIA in 
its list of 100 Best Companies to 
Work For. We’re also on MIT Tech 
Review’s 50 Smartest Companies 
list and Human Rights Watch’s 
Corporate Equality Index. Glassdoor 
includes us on its Employee’s 
Choice: Best Places to Work list.
A TOP PLACE FOR TALENT  For the third year, NVIDIA is on Fortune magazine’s 100 Best Places 
to Work. We also were recognized for providing great benefits, such as a generous student loan 
repayment program, to retain top talent.
Fortune has recognized 
NVIDIA in its list of 100 
Best Companies to  
Work For.
We’re also on MIT Tech 
Review’s 50 Smartest 
Companies list and 
Human Rights Watch’s 
Corporate Equality Index. 
Glassdoor includes us on 
its Employee’s Choice: 
Best Places to Work list.29
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Compensation  
and Benefits 
We have four key objectives in our 
compensation strategy: attract 
and retain the world’s best talent, 
reward performance, focus on 
growth, and think in terms of 
total pay. Our total compensation 
packages are competitive, fair, 
and structured to encourage 
employees to invest in the 
company’s future. Our employees 
enjoy a comprehensive, market-
competitive benefits package. All 
employees have the opportunity to 
be shareholders in the company 
through our employee stock 
purchase plan (ESPP).We invest in and commit to our 
employees’ long-term success. 
NVIDIA’s benefits  include  
flexible work hours and flexible 
time off, programs to help 
employees address stress and 
time-management challenges, and  
an array of convenient onsite 
services. We support employees  
in their important life events 
through our global Guidance 
Resources Program and a  
generous leave program.Recruiting
As we enter new markets in AI 
and deep learning, the demand for 
talent is increasingly competitive. 
We continually evaluate the right 
mix of compensation and benefits, 
so we can continue to attract 
the best and the brightest. To 
attract and retain highly qualified 
individuals, we: 
 >Attend professional and  
university recruiting events 
 >Perform semi-annual 
compensation analysis  
and adjustments
 >Evaluate benefits annually 
 >Analyze global employee 
engagement survey data 
 >Engage in “best place to work” 
surveys that provide feedback on 
our strengths and weaknesses 
30
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Learning and 
Development
Through our learning and 
development program, employees 
receive training on the job and in 
more formal settings. We use both 
internally and externally created 
training content, and our employees 
can access hundreds of technical 
and professional development 
courses via our NVLearn portal. 
LinkedIn Learning, GlobeSmart, 
Udemy for Business, and courses 
from LearniT! are available online 
for employees, as are the digital 
libraries of the Institute of  
Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers and the Association for 
Computing Machinery through our  
corporate memberships. We offer tuition reimbursement 
at most accredited educational 
institutions — including Coursera 
— and pay tuition to technical 
education programs at the 
Stanford Center for Professional 
Development. We also encourage 
employees to take classes through 
NVIDIA’s Deep Learning Institute , 
which offers courses online and in 
person for developers who want to 
learn the technical aspects of AI.
Additional information about  
how we recruit, acquire,  
develop, and retain employees 
is covered under the issues of 
Diversity and Inclusion  and 
Employee Engagement .NVIDIA 
offers tuition 
reimbursement at 
most accredited 
educational 
institutions.
31
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Policies and practices to engage employees and 
create a great workplace as measured through 
employee surveys; implementation of relevant  
survey feedback
For a quarter of a century, we have pushed the 
boundaries of what’s possible in the world of parallel 
computing, and we have succeeded because we are 
focused and passionate about what we do. To ensure our 
continued success, we maintain a working environment 
where our employees are engaged and inspired. 
Our corporate culture arises from five core values, 
which provide the foundation for success. These values 
create a workplace where innovation thrives and 
mistakes are transformed into opportunities.
INNOVATION
Dream big, start 
small. Take risks, learn fast. 
We make things that delight customersand raise industry standards. We encourage employees to innovate, guidedby ﬁrst principles,not consensus.
We know our path to 
discovery will be paved with mistakes. We anticipate and avoid the ones we can. We accept, learn from, and share the ones that occur. This allows us to invent things the world doesn’t even know it needs, and by doing so, invent the future. INTELLECTUAL
HONESTY 
Seek truth, learn 
from mistakes,share learnings.
 
We operate at the 
highest ethical standards. We seekto accurately know ourselves and our capabilities— acknowledging our weaknesses and learning fromour mistakes.
The sharpest 
understanding of reality improves our work. Identifying the origins of mistakes is not about blame. It is essential to learning and constant improvement. We say what we believe, and have the courage to act on it.SPEED AND 
AGILITY
Learn, adapt, shape the world.
We are alert and constantly learning, and adjust course to align to new realities. This lets us create groundbreaking products at astonishing speed. No politics, no hierarchy stands in the way of inventing the future.EXCELLENCE AND
DETERMINATION
Maintain the highest standards.
We hire extraordinarily talented individuals across the globe, people determined to make a difference. We challenge ourselves to do our best work.
We measure 
ourselves not against the competition, but against perfection— we call it the speed-of-light test. We are not deterred by lengthy endeavors if they are worthy.We are playing along game.ONE TEAM
Do what’s best for the company. 
We foster an environment of transparency, openness, and sharing information. One that motivates our employees, and empowers them to work as a single integrated team.
We disagree openly 
and directly because conﬂict is essential to resolving differences, improving ideas, and achieving alignment. Our focus is on substance, not on style. By putting the interests of the company before our own, we can more easily accomplish 
NVIDIA’s vision.NVIDIA’S CORE VALUES
32NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Employee Feedback
To track engagement and retention 
trends, we conduct a global employee 
survey every 18-24 months, and the 
participation level is at 95 percent. 
We ask for feedback across 13 
dimensions, including strength of 
culture, engagement, satisfaction, 
vision and direction, and work-life 
flexibility. The survey repeatedly 
tells us that our employees feel great 
pride in the company — 90 percent 
recommend NVIDIA as a great place 
to work and 96 percent believe that our products are making a positive 
impact in the world. Our last survey 
occurred in November 2017.
We are committed to a strong 
workplace culture that provides 
effective grievance mechanisms for 
our employees. To report practices or 
actions believed to be inappropriate 
or illegal, employees have several 
channels through which to report, 
including our human resources 
departments, a suggestion box, and  
a third-party anonymous service.MEASURING  
EMPLOYEE  
FEEDBACK
89%
say that we’ve created an  
environment where people of 
diverse backgrounds  
can succeed
87%
say that our teams value  
diverse perspectives
90%
say that NVIDIA is  
a great place to work 
96% 
believe that our products  
are making a positive impact 
in the world
 
FAST COMPANY
Most Innovative  
CompanyEMPLOYER OF CHOICE
 
FORTUNE
100 Best Companies  
to Work ForCORPORATE  
EQUALITY INDEX
Best Place for  
LGBTQ Employees
33NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Policies, practices, and initiatives related to employee, 
supplier, and board diversity and inclusion; gender 
equity in the technology industry
We believe that diverse teams fuel innovation, and  
we are committed to creating an inclusive culture that 
supports all employees, regardless of gender, gender 
identity or expression, veteran status, race, ethnicity,  
or ability. 
We integrate diversity and inclusion into the entire 
employee experience and drive programs in three 
core areas: recruiting and hiring, development and 
recognition, and employee support. Additionally, 
we are committed to pay transparency and making 
all employment decisions on the principles of equal 
employment opportunity. 
Diversity and inclusion are integrated throughout our 
company and supported at the highest levels of our 
organization. Twenty-five percent of our executive team 
is female and nearly 42 percent is female or identifies 
with racial/ethnic minority populations.
WE BELIEVE IN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
We treat each individual fairly, and we don’t 
tolerate discrimination or harassment against 
anyone on the basis of race, color, religion, sex 
(including pregnancy), marital or protected 
veteran status, age, national origin, ancestry, 
physical or mental disability, genetic information, 
medical condition, sexual orientation, gender, 
gender identity, gender expression, or any other 
characteristic protected by law. 
NVIDIA Code of Conduct34NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Recruiting and Hiring
We prioritize the recruitment of 
women and underrepresented 
minorities, and we reached 47,000 
diverse candidates in FY19. Our 
strategies include:
 >Crafting job descriptions to 
eliminate unintended bias using 
an AI-based third-party tool.
 >Ensuring that technical women 
interviewees meet with at least 
one technical woman during the 
interview process.
 >Providing guidance to hiring 
managers on unconscious bias 
mitigation practices.
 >Developing women and minority 
recruiting teams for academic 
and professional job fairs.
 >Partnering with historically  
black colleges and Hispanic-
serving institutions. 
 >Recruiting at campus fairs 
through partnerships with: 
Society of Women Engineers, 
National Society of Black 
Engineers, and Society of 
Hispanic Professional Engineers. 
 >Recruiting at professional events 
such as: Grace Hopper, Society of 
Women Engineers, Vets in Tech, 
Tech Inclusion, Lesbians Who 
Tech, and the National Society of 
Black Engineers.
 >Posting job openings and doing 
skills translation on military.com.
 >Mentoring undergraduate women 
pursuing tech degrees through 
Rewriting the Code.
 >Providing scholarships for women 
through Advancing Science in 
America Foundation.
 >Offering free passes to  
technical women’s organizations 
and universities for our 
developers conference.Development and 
Recognition
To maximize our employees’ 
success and ensure continued 
diversity and inclusion, we 
recognize and celebrate our 
employees’ contributions and 
encourage lifelong learning.  
Our strategies include:
 >Encouraging internal  
mobility through career expos  
and counseling.
 >Strengthening development 
programs for women through 
mentoring, technical offerings, 
collaborative learning, and on-
the-job training. 
 >Partnering mentors and mentees 
for coaching and support.
 >Sponsoring women to present and 
attend technical conferences.
 >Submitting top-performing 
employees for recognition and 
awards. The YWCA Silicon Valley 
has recognized 25 NVIDIA leaders 
in the past seven years through its 
Tribute to Women awards. 
 >Featuring diverse employees  
on NVIDIA.com and our  
corporate intranet. HOW WE TRACK  
OUR PROGRESS
The metrics we use to track 
our diversity and inclusion 
progress include:
HIRING
 >We set internal goals to 
increase our hiring of 
women and minorities.
 >We evaluate our interview 
pipeline to ensure it 
reflects the industry’s 
minority representation.
RETENTION
 >We review and analyze 
compensation and 
performance twice yearly.
 >We track employee-survey 
metrics, focusing on how 
women and minorities view 
our work environment.
PROMOTIONS AND 
TURNOVER
 >We monitor the number of 
promotions and turnover 
within minority groups 
against the total.
35NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Employee Support
Our ongoing efforts to support our employees 
personally and professionally help to create an 
environment where employees can do their best work. 
These efforts include:
 >Offering a generous parental leave program with 
flexible work hours upon return from leave. 
 >Providing full coverage for benefits such as in vitro 
fertilization, egg freezing, and adoption. 
 >Conducting training with 300+ leaders to build their 
awareness about unconscious bias in recruiting  
and hiring. 
 >Supporting the establishment of and providing funding 
to employee resource groups that have executive-
level sponsorship and dedicated budgets: Women in 
Technology, NV Pride (LGBTQ employees and allies), 
Black NVIDIAN Network, Early Career Network, and 
Hispanic Latino Network. Our CEO meets with the 
co-chairs of these groups periodically to understand 
their experience and drive programs and benefits that 
support these communities.
 >Expanding Women in Technology programs beyond  
our headquarters to Austin and St. Louis and, in FY19, 
to India. Equitable Pay
We are committed to providing a fair and living wage 
to all employees. To ensure pay parity, each year since 
2015 we have used a third-party firm, Economist, Inc., 
to analyze our pay practices for gender and ethnicity 
across 75+ dimensions, including rating, education, 
years of experience, job function, family, and level. The 
firm has not found any statistically significant disparities 
related to female or underrepresented minority 
compensation. If we were to identify an issue of pay 
disparity, our human resources organization would take 
corrective action. We’ve achieved pay parity for the past 
several years and plan to continue doing so in FY20. 
In FY19, we increased payments to our vendors so  
that they, in turn, could increase hourly wages for  
their employees. 
See the Diversity Performance  section for several 
metrics we use to track our progress, and FY19  
and FY20 Goals in the Performance  section for  
progress updates. 
NVIDIA’S PARENTAL LEAVE PLAN
BIRTH MOTHER BENIFITS POLICY
FATHERS, ADOPTIVE PARENTS, FOSTER PARENTS BENEFITS POLICYWEEKS
NEW POLICY
OLD POLICYBABY BONDING LEAVE
6 WEEKS
REDUCED PAYUNPAID6 WEEKS 100% PAY,4 WEEKS REDUCED PAYCHILD’S BIRTH
FLEX TIME
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
100% OF PAYPREGNANCY LEAVE
WEEKS
NEW POLICY
OLD POLICY6 WEEKS 100% PAY,1 WEEK REDUCED PAY1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20BABY BONDING LEAVE FLEX TIME
100% OF PAY
UNPAID36NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Building the Future 
STEM Pipeline
Improving the representation of 
women and minorities in tech 
requires a long-term perspective, 
so we implemented a number 
of programs to engage in STEM 
activities with girls and other 
unrepresented groups. We reach 
youth through technology donations, 
sponsorships, campus visits, guest 
speakers, and career roundtables.
From FY18-FY19, we engaged 
several hundred girls and 
underrepresented youth through 
organizations such as: Girls 
Engaged in Math and Science 
(GEMS), Santa Clara University’s 
Summer Engineering Seminar 
Program, Iridescent’s Technovation 
Program, 49er STEM Leadership 
Institute, Third Street Community 
Center’s Young Engineers Program, 
and Girls Who Code. We also 
engaged several hundred students 
from the Santa Clara Unified School 
District through our Techsplorer 
program. In FY17–FY19, through 
the India Companies Act, we funded 
organizations in India that helped 
more than 3,000 young women from 
impoverished communities in India gain greater access to computer 
training and develop skills to 
improve their career opportunities.
Developer Inclusivity 
and Diversity 
Each year, we hold our developers 
forum, the GPU Technology 
Conference , in San Jose, California. 
GTC is an opportunity to extend our 
inclusion efforts to our ecosystem.
At our 2019 conference, we 
increased female attendance by 
more than 50 percent and almost 
doubled the number of talks that 
included a woman speaker. And for 
the sixth year in a row, GTC included 
events  specifically for women. We 
hosted a Women in Deep Learning 
& AI breakfast and panel focused on 
the AI healthcare ecosystem, as well 
as a session on how organizations 
are lowering the barriers to entry 
into AI engineering.
New this year, we hosted a Women’s 
Early Career Accelerator  to give 
50 women starting out in AI access 
to our deep learning courses that 
provide hands-on training and 
opportunities to network. In 2019, Forbes  called out GTC as a top 
conference for women wanting to 
learn more about AI.
Other activities to increase the 
number of women and minority 
technologists attending GTC 
included: 
 >Scholarships for members of 
Black in AI and Latinx in AI
 >Free conference passes to local 
universities and women-in-
technology organizations
 >Reaching out to women in our 
university and developer network 
to encourage them to speak, 
which helped to increase female 
speakers in 2019 by 40 percent 
 >Highlighting women speakers 
on the main GTC website and 
prominently featuring them in 
promotional materials
Beyond this, we’ve also recruited 
at the Grace Hopper Conference, 
sponsored Black in AI  events 
at NeurIPS and hosted a mixer 
with Latinx in AI  and Black in AI  
members at GTC.
MAKING OUR MARK  In 2018, 40 NVIDIANs joined the Grace Hopper  Celebration of Women in 
Computing conference — the world’s largest gathering of women technologists. Seven employees 
gave talks or led workshops.EXPANDING THE  
AI ECOSYSTEM
NVIDIA promotes important 
women working in the AI 
ecosystem.
 >How One Woman Followed 
Her Passion and Brought 
Diversity to AI
 >Meet 2 Women 
Transforming The AI 
Ecosystem In Africa37NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
EMPLOYEE 
HEALTH AND 
SAFETY
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Occupational health and safety 
performance and policies; safety 
standards (ISO 18001, OSHA); 
health and wellness programs; 
security practices
Our employees’ ability to perform 
their jobs well depends on their 
physical and mental health and their 
safety and security. Our integrated 
programs actively support these 
fundamental needs. Health and Wellness 
We offer programs throughout 
the year to assist with employees’ 
personal wellness, including health 
analysis, skin cancer screening, and 
hereditary cancer screening. Our 
record reflects the results of our 
dedication to employee health and 
wellness. Less than one percent of 
leave-of-absence requests within 
NVIDIA relate to work. Our lost-
time incident rate and our total 
recordable incident rate are both 
zero. Few workers compensation 
claims are submitted, and the 
majority of those processed 
are repetitive motion injuries. 
In recognition of this fact, we’ve 
taken steps to work with affected 
employees through our ergonomics 
program and online courses.Safety
Our Environmental Health and 
Safety (EHS) team oversees 
workplace conditions for NVIDIANs 
globally. Team members provide 
guidance to ensure that facilities 
meet or exceed local safety 
requirements, promote safe work 
practices, and support compliance 
with applicable health and safety 
legislation and policies through 
trainings, communications, and 
audits. Our global EHS management 
framework includes: 
 >A network of site safety 
officers who provide local EHS 
accountability; 
 >Documented, globally applicable 
programs on key topics, including 
contractor management, ladder 
safety, ergonomics, and vehicle 
safety; and 
 >External EHS audits and internal 
EHS inspections of our owned and 
leased offices. 
keeping our employees safe 
requires planning for emergencies. 
Our volunteer emergency response 
teams involve more than 500 
employees around the world. These 
volunteers assist with evacuation 
drills and may receive training in 
basic first aid, CPR, AED, or fire 
extinguisher training in addition to 
emergency preparedness that will 
enable them to rapidly respond in 
an emergency or disaster.
Our volunteer 
emergency 
response teams 
involve more than 
500 employees 
around the world.38NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
PRODUCT 
SAFETY
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Safety of products, from 
production to use to end-of-life, 
including the safety of materials 
and components
Safety is a principle that permeates 
our engineering culture and is 
incorporated into every step of our 
product development process, from 
design and production to the end-
user experience. We must meet 
customer safety and compliance 
standards. If our products are not 
in compliance, then customers 
may not incorporate them into 
their design strategies. Our ability 
to secure appropriate safety 
certifications and meet industry 
safety standards could affect our 
results of operations in the future. 
We have established product  
safety technical committees to 
oversee safety throughout the 
product lifecycle. Self-Driving Car Safety
As a solutions provider to the 
vast majority of startups, vehicle 
makers, suppliers, sensor makers, 
and mapping companies in the 
autonomous vehicle industry, 
we make safety our first priority. 
Experts architect safety into 
every aspect of our NVIDIA 
DRIVE  computer system, which 
includes the foundational hardware 
and software for autonomous 
driving technologies. We develop 
tools and methods so technologies 
perform reliably. Stringent 
engineering processes ensure 
that no corners are cut. Our safety 
priorities and processes are 
outlined in a Self-Driving Safety 
Report  we released in FY19. To show our commitment to 
automotive safety, we are pursuing 
product compliance through ISO 
26262, an automotive-specific 
international standard that focuses 
on safety-critical components. 
In FY19, a top automotive safety 
and reliability company, TÜV 
SÜD, performed a safety concept 
assessment of our new NVIDIA 
xavier system-on-chip (SoC). TÜV 
SÜD deemed the processor’s safety 
architecture  suitable for use in 
autonomous driving applications  
and completed an assessment of 
the development process applied 
to xavier. We are expecting to finish 
our first product assessment for the 
xavier SoC around mid FY20.  
39NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
SOCIETAL 
IMPACTS OF AI
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Development of technologies that 
contribute positively to society; 
supporting developers and 
startups during the development 
phases to consider broader 
societal implications, such as bias, 
workforce, and ethical concerns
AI represents the biggest 
technological and economic shift in 
our era. It is profoundly impacting 
transportation, healthcare, 
cybersecurity, and many other 
industries. We create advanced 
computing tools that serve as 
open platforms for developers, 
researchers, and data scientists to 
innovate in these areas. We educate 
tens of thousands of developers 
each year; partner with thousands 
of startups globally that use AI to 
benefit society; and collaborate with 
dozens of universities and research 
organizations in performing 
groundbreaking AI research. 
We play a leading role in developing 
technology and software that make 
safe autonomous vehicles possible. 
The goal: avoid human error, which 
is responsible for an estimated 94 
percent of all accidents. Automotive 
safety in our product and software 
design is a crucial element in 
helping self-driving vehicles reach 
their full potential as a major 
benefit to society.  
All parties involved in the 
autonomous vehicle industry, 
including auto manufacturers, 
technology providers, and coalition 
groups, are interested in developing 
shared ethical standards around 
how autonomous vehicles make 
decisions. As a founding member of 
the Partners for Automated Vehicle 
Education coalition, we work with the industry, research  
institutions, and regulators to 
educate consumers on safe  
self-driving technology.
In healthcare, we are driving the 
introduction of AI in such areas as 
disease detection, drug discovery, 
and patient workflows. k ey to these 
efforts is our development of the 
NVIDIA Clara  platform, which 
increases diagnostic accuracy, 
enabling the medical imaging 
community to improve patient 
outcomes and reduce the cost 
of care. Clara also addresses a 
fundamental problem: legacy 
medical imaging instruments, 
which typically have a lifespan of 
more than a decade but may not be 
able to run modern applications that 
benefit from the 1,000x acceleration 
of GPU computing. By connecting 
to NVIDIA’s GPU-powered servers, 
these legacy instruments can 
leverage the latest and most 
advanced imaging applications. We share the widespread concerns 
about bias and maintaining ethical 
practices in AI, and they help guide 
the work of our data scientists.  
We host seminars at our GTCs 
around the world to train other 
engineers in upholding best 
practices. In our engagements with 
governments, we emphasize the 
importance of supporting positive 
uses of AI while considering issues 
around its development.   
Deployed properly, AI can remove 
bias in areas that people have 
struggled to address for decades. 
We hold ourselves to the highest 
standards in our research and 
support and encourage developers 
to work with the most accurate data 
sets to improve the algorithms in 
their work. 
AI BENEFITS TO SOCIETY  AI researchers globally are using NVIDIA technology for efforts that 
improve society.  40NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
PHILANTHROPY 
AND 
VOLUNTEERISM
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Community engagement and 
interaction; outreach; support 
for local initiatives; corporate 
philanthropy, including monetary 
and in-kind donations and 
foundation grants
Through a variety of initiatives, 
the NVIDIA Foundation  helps our 
employees turn their passion for 
giving into action. Led by four 
staff members in partnership 
with employee champions around 
the world, we give NVIDIANs 
opportunities to donate their time 
and talent through activities like 
mentoring and tutoring programs, 
and through large-scale volunteer 
efforts like our annual Project 
Inspire  and department team-
building events. We encourage 
them to contribute financially to 
fundraising efforts. Our matching 
gifts program helps amplify 
their personal contributions — 
both financial and time — to the organizations most important  
to them.
In FY19, NVIDIA and its employees 
donated nearly $3.3 million and 
more than 13,000 volunteer hours 
to support charitable organizations 
around the world. Nearly three 
quarters of our offices held at least 
one charitable-giving event. We 
matched more than $1 million in 
employee contributions through 
our matching gifts program and 
supported some 1,500 nonprofits. 
Through grants and employee 
fundraising efforts, NVIDIA donated 
more than $680,000 to support 
the fight against cancer in FY19. 
We awarded four $50,000 grants 
to nonprofits providing cancer 
patient care and support services, 
and we raised more than $365,000 
for various cancer organizations 
through a global cancer fundraiser 
involving nearly a dozen of our 
global offices. As part of this effort, 
Santa Clara NVIDIANs earned 
recognition as the top fundraising 
team in the U.S. for the second 
straight year for the American 
Cancer Society’s Making Strides 
Against Breast Cancer walk. In FY19, the company and our 
employees donated more than $1.3 
million and 7,200 volunteer hours 
to education efforts, reaching 
nearly 80,000 youth. We revamped 
education facilities through Project 
Inspire events held by our offices 
in Berlin, Bristol, Cambridge, 
Durham, Hillsboro, Hsinchu, 
Hyderabad, Munich, Pune, Reading, 
Shenzhen, Taipei, Tel Aviv, Westford, 
and Würselen.
We partnered with education 
nonprofit Iridescent to expand its AI 
Family Challenge initiative to three 
new locations. This global program 
leverages our Techsplorer  kits to 
introduce underserved students 
and families to AI through hands-on 
learning. Since its launch in FY18, 
Techsplorer has reached more than 
10,000 students. 
See Social Performance to track our 
progress. The NVIDIA Foundation 
annual report  outlines key changes 
we made to our program for 2019 
and beyond.GIVING  
SNAPSHOT
73%
office participation
13,000+
volunteer hours
$1 MILLION
in employee matching
41ENVIRONMENTAL
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT07
GREENHOUSE 
GASES AND 
CLIMATE 
CHANGE
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction 
and mitigation, including those 
related to product manufacturing 
supply chain; climate risks  
and opportunities
We calculate scopes 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions for our global data 
centers and offices, gather primary 
data for all data centers and offices 
larger than 50,000 square feet (88 
percent of our total scope 1 and 
2 GHG emissions), and estimate 
emissions for offices less than 
50,000 square feet (the remaining 
12 percent). 
Our current GHG goal is to reduce 
scope 1 and 2 emissions by 15 
percent per employee by FY20 
compared to FY14. Since this 
goal was originally set, we have substantially grown our business, 
as illustrated by a 184 percent 
increase in revenue, a 67 percent 
increase in headcount, and a 23 
percent increase in square footage 
between FY14 and FY19. This  
rapid and significant business 
growth means that we must focus 
on siting expansions strategically, 
managing our operations efficiently, 
and sourcing low carbon and 
renewable forms of energy to  
avoid an equivalent growth in 
our GHG emissions footprint (see 
Energy  section). 
Although we have seen a 63 percent 
increase in our total energy demand 
over the past five years, our scope 1 
and 2 emissions have increased by 
34 percent in absolute terms. When 
normalized, this is equivalent to a 
7 percent reduction in emissions 
per employee between FY18 and 
FY19 and a 20 percent reduction in 
emissions per employee since FY14, 
outperforming our FY20 goal of 15 
percent reduction per employee. OUR GHG EMISSIONS 
REPORTING INCLUDES: 
 > Scope 1 : Stationary 
combustion sources (e.g., 
natural gas, diesel fuel) and 
HFC refrigerant emissions 
 > Scope 2 : Purchased 
electricity use (offices, 
labs, datacenters) 
 > Scope 3 : Emissions 
from operational waste, 
business travel, data center 
cooling load, product 
transportation, fuel and 
energy related activities
42NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
We will continue to track against our 
current goal through FY20, and we 
are evaluating options for an updated 
goal that is appropriate for our 
growing and diversifying business 
and specifically targets ways to 
address our data center footprint.
Our growing business causes 
GHG emissions beyond our direct 
footprint. This is because emissions 
are created at every stage of our 
product lifecycle, extending to our 
customers’ use and disposal of 
our products. Since FY15, we have 
required our key manufacturing 
suppliers to report their energy 
usage, GHG emissions data, and 
their reduction goals and objectives. 
In FY18, we added a requirement 
that these suppliers have their GHG 
emissions verified by a third party. 
We have used this supplier data to 
help us better understand the GHG 
emissions footprint of our product 
manufacturing and to calculate the 
allocation of carbon emissions from 
tier 1 suppliers that are attributable 
to our customers.Reporting and 
External Assurance 
Each year, we participate in the 
CDP climate change and water 
surveys. Participants are scored 
based on their understanding and 
management of their business 
risks, opportunities, and impacts 
related to climate change and water 
resources. Between FY10 and FY16, 
we improved our climate change 
disclosure score from 34 to 98 (out 
of a possible 100 points). In FY18, we 
scored a B in the CDP’s new scoring 
paradigm for climate change, and in 
FY19, we scored an A-. See our 2018 
CDP response .
We have engaged Trucost to  
provide limited assurance under  
the AA1000 assurance standards 
on our FY19 global scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions and scope 3 waste 
generated in operations. View the 
assurance statement .
See the Environmental Objectives  
table to read about our greenhouse 
gas emissions (office and data 
centers) goal, and FY19 progress. 
In FY19, we secured 
renewable power for 
several co-located data 
centers both in the U.S. 
and globally.
SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS
70,000
010,00020,00030,00040,00050,00060,0005
01234
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 201915% GHG/HC Goal
Scope 1 Scope 2 GHG / HeadcountMTCO 2eMTCO 2e / Headcount43NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
ENERGY, WATER, 
AND WASTE
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Energy and water sourcing, waste 
management; efficient energy 
use and conservation; renewable 
energy strategy; water scarcity; 
solid waste minimization (both 
hazardous and non-hazardous); 
proper care and disposal of 
hazardous waste; recycling 
efforts, and e-waste
We are committed to protecting the 
environment by driving operational 
excellence in ways that reduce 
our environmental impact. In 
support of this commitment, we 
identify and control environmental 
impacts and continuously 
improve our performance using 
a comprehensive environmental 
management system (EMS). Our 
dedicated EHS (Environmental, 
Health, and Safety) and CSR teams 
work closely with employees in all 
offices around the globe to execute 
our policies and practices, which 
are made tangible through solid 
goals and metrics. See Facilities Management  to 
read about our operational, 
product, and supply chain ISO 14001 
certifications. See Environmental 
Performance   for a broad list  
of metrics we track related to  
the environment.
Energy
Energy use, and specifically 
electricity use, is the primary driver 
of our scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
footprint. Our total energy use 
increased by approximately 30 
percent in FY19 compared to FY18, 
with three-quarters of this increase 
occurring in our data center 
operations. These operations have 
been growing rapidly along with 
our expanding business and our 
diversification into new  
online services. 
As we experience this increase in 
our global data center footprint, 
we’re working to incorporate 
environmental considerations — 
including energy efficiency — and 
renewable power options into our 
data center siting and sourcing 
evaluations. In FY19, we newly 
secured renewable power for several colocation data centers both 
in the U.S. and globally. 
With our data center growth NVIDA 
has deployed state-of-the-art 
cooling technology designed for 
NVIDIA server products. Power 
distribution in the data center has 
increased voltage supply to more 
efficiently deliver power. Cooling 
solutions have been closely coupled 
with server racks to localize and 
optimize heat transfer for efficiency. 
NVIDIA used computation fluid 
dynamic models to optimize cooling 
for data center designs and server 
rack deployments. Data centers 
have also been deployed with white 
surfaces to optimize reflective 
lighting. Controllable, high 
efficiency LED lighting is installed 
where artificial lighting is needed. 
NVIDIA’s data center best practices 
and optimizations are shared with 
customers and partners to educate 
and optimize deployments. 
Our global offices were responsible 
for 56 percent of our total energy 
use in FY19. We implemented 
several energy-efficiency projects, 
including the redesign and 
replacement of building services 
systems, such as lighting and 
44NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
HVAC, with newer, high-efficiency 
systems. As our building systems 
necessarily become more 
sophisticated, we provide our 
facilities management teams with 
additional tools and training to 
ensure continued performance. 
Additionally, during FY19 we 
secured new renewable energy 
supply contracts which are 
coming on line during FY20 for our 
Bangalore, Würselen, and Berlin 
locations. Following a successful 
solar panel implementation at our 
headquarters, we are evaluating 
opportunities for onsite solar 
photovoltaic generation elsewhere 
in our global portfolio. 
To support our employees who wish 
to generate solar power at home, 
we partnered with a major solar 
power company to offer educational 
workshops, a $1,000 rebate on the 
installation of solar panels, and 
$100 for in-home consultation. In 
the short period during which we 
ran this promotion last year, we 
received more than 70 qualified 
requests and 18 employees 
completed new installations. Our 
rate of home solar adoption is twice 
the industry average. In addition, for 
employees who wish to transition to 
electric vehicles, we’ve partnered 
with a major EV charger to offer 
exclusive discounts. Water
We use water in our direct 
operations in cooling towers and 
for food service, landscaping, 
and sanitation. We take steps to 
use water efficiently, particularly 
in locations that are vulnerable 
to drought conditions, such 
as California, where we have 
large facilities. As we develop 
and grow at our headquarters, 
we’re implementing measures 
to conserve water resources and 
reduce our potable water demand. 
Our newest headquarters 
building, which opened in late 
FY18, incorporates a range of 
water conservation measures. 
Through the installation of low-
flow bathroom fixtures and the 
use of recycled water for toilet 
flushing, the building is designed 
to achieve a 42 percent reduction 
in domestic water demand and a 
91 percent reduction in potable 
water use for sewage conveyance. 
We are using reclaimed water in 
the building’s cooling towers and 
landscape irrigation systems, and 
our landscaping consists of native, 
drought-resistant plants. During 
FY19 this building used 46 percent 
less potable water than our other 
campus buildings of a comparable 
size. We are incorporating similar 
water efficiency features and 
the use of recycled water for cooling towers, toilet flushing, and 
irrigation into the design of another 
new building we have planned for 
our headquarters campus. 
Our indirect uses of water include 
our product manufacturing 
supply chain. We require our key 
manufacturers to track and report 
their water use and share their 
reduction goals and initiatives  
with us. 
We support our employees in their 
efforts to go green at home, providing 
financial incentives to install residential 
solar systems. For employees who wish 
to transition to electric vehicles, we’ve 
partnered with a major EV charger to offer 
exclusive discounts.45NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
Waste
We have tracked total waste 
generated and diverted at our 
headquarters since FY08, and our 
annual goal for landfill diversion 
is 80 percent. In FY18, we achieved 
a 90 percent rate overall (80 
percent of our operational waste 
and 92 percent of our construction 
project waste was diverted). In 
the last year, we implemented a 
range of measures to improve 
our diversion rate, such as an 
employee awareness campaign 
to encourage better separation, 
adding waste tracking and recycling 
requirements into our facilities 
project management process, 
providing training to our global 
facilities teams, including best 
practices in our Global Workplace 
Guidelines, and “dumpster  
diving” to analyze our waste 
streams and inform our waste 
segregation approach. 
Our employee restaurants and 
catering activities are an important 
focus for our waste program. 
Specific initiatives include replacing 
disposables with durable, washable 
tableware in our employee 
restaurants, introducing a new food waste tracking system, replacing 
single-use items such as  
sachets, and partnering with our 
food services vendor to make 
weekly donations of food to 
homeless shelters.
We generate various types of 
e-waste, including servers, storage 
equipment, and networking 
equipment used in our data centers; 
computers, monitors, and other 
electronic equipment used by our 
employees; and NVIDIA products we 
use at our sites for testing and other 
purposes. We partner with a global 
specialist e-waste vendor to ensure 
proper tracking, decommissioning, 
and recycling of our e-waste. 
See Performance  for data on our 
various waste streams. 
In FY19, 90% of 
our headquarters 
waste was either 
recycled or 
composted, with 
only 10% going to 
a landfill.46NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
FACILITIES 
MANAGEMENT
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Policies and practices 
regarding overall environmental 
management at NVIDIA; 
environmental management 
systems (ISO14001) and 
certifications; green building 
practices/LEED certification
Environmental Policies 
and Management 
Systems
We drive operational excellence to 
reduce our environmental impact. 
In support of this commitment, we 
identify and control environmental 
impacts and continuously 
improve our performance using a 
comprehensive EMS.Our Environmental, Health, 
Safety, and Energy Policy  provides 
the framework for our EMS. Our 
dedicated EHS and CSR teams work 
closely with employees around the 
globe to execute our environmental 
policies and practices, which are 
made tangible through goals and 
metrics that are annually reviewed 
with executives. 
Our Silicon Valley headquarters and 
our product design, procurement, 
and supply chain functions have 
been ISO14001 certified with zero 
nonconformances identified since 
FY06. We upgraded to the ISO 
14001:2015 standard in FY19 (view 
our certification ). Building on the 
success of our ISO14001 EMS, 
we are implementing an energy 
management system in accordance 
with the ISO50001 standard. 
See Environmental Performance  
for a broad list of metrics we track 
related to the environment. Green Building 
Practices
We use green building standards to 
target high levels of environmental 
sustainability performance when 
designing new buildings. 
In September 2017, we opened our 
new 500,000-square-foot building 
at our Silicon Valley headquarters. 
It was designed with high levels of 
energy efficiency in mind, including 
a high-performing building 
envelope, efficient and smart 
lighting systems that incorporate 
the use of daylight, underfloor 
air distribution, radiant heating 
and cooling, air and waterside 
economizers, and high-efficiency 
boilers and chillers. An advanced 
building control system underpins 
the building’s operation. The 
building was awarded LEED Gold 
certification  for New Construction 
during FY19. The building was 
awarded a significant number of 
points in the Sustainable Sites, 
Water Efficiency, and Energy and 
Atmosphere categories. 
Other green building certified 
buildings in our global portfolio 
include our offices in Pune, India 
(LEED Gold for interiors) and 
Shanghai, China (LEED Silver); 
our new Munich, Germany, office 
(BREEAM Gold) and a data center 
in Santa Clara, California (LEED 
Platinum certification for interiors). 
LEED GOLD CAMPUS In FY19, NVIDIA’s Silicon Valley  newest headquarters building was awarded 
LEED Gold status. Its green design features include energy-efficient lighting, radiant heat, use of 
reclaimed water, and an advanced building control system. 47NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
Commute Initiatives
We established our Green2Work 
program at our Silicon Valley 
headquarters in FY15 to support 
our employees in using alternative 
commute options and reducing 
their commute impacts. More 
than 30 percent of our Silicon 
Valley employees and contractors 
currently take advantage of one or 
more of our commute offerings. The 
program includes electric vehicle 
charging, pre-tax dollars for transit 
and local transit shuttles, last-mile 
shuttle service for train riders, 
resources for cyclists, advantages 
for carpooling and vanpooling, 
shuttles from San Francisco and 
Fremont, and an online resource 
for commuters. We have 40 car 
and three motorcycle electric-
vehicle charging stations at our 
headquarters and, to date, 700 
employees have used this service 
with the help of vehicle charging 
valet parking attendants. 
In FY18, we started offering the 
Scoop carpooling service in 
Silicon Valley. By December 2018, 
NVIDIANs using Scoop avoided 
driving more than 373,000 miles and 
saved more than 338,000 pounds 
of CO 2. For cyclists, we provide 
lockers, showers, and secure bike 
parking. To assist our alternative 
commuters in the event of an 
emergency, we offer an emergency 
ride home through Lyft or Uber.ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT OF 
PRODUCTS
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Impacts associated with the 
application of NVIDIA products  
for environmental benefit, such  
as designing products that 
maximize performance and 
minimize energy use; restricting 
hazardous substances
Whether we are designing 
technology to power next-
generation tablets or creating 
designs to support high-
performance supercomputers, 
improving energy efficiency is a 
principal goal in each step of our 
research, development, and design 
processes. Parallel processing 
consumes far less power than 
equivalent computational forms. 
GPUs are up to 10 times more 
energy efficient than CPUs for 
parallel compute workloads.As AI becomes ubiquitous, the 
technologies that power it are 
frequently evaluated to determine 
which provide the best performance 
for training data and inference 
(how computers deduce new 
formation). The  MLPerf  consortium, 
which provides a machine-learning 
benchmark that measures system 
performance for training and 
inference from mobile devices to 
cloud services, published results 
indicating that NVIDIA finished first 
in single-node and at-scale results 
for all six test categories in which 
NVIDIA participated .
HPC LEADERSHIP  The 2018 list of TOP500 fastest supercomputers showed a 48 percent jump 
within one year in the number of systems using NVIDIA GPU accelerators. Fifty-four percent of 
the new computing horsepower (flops) in the world’s top 500 supercomputers came from one 
architecture: NVIDIA GPUs.48NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
NVIDIA TURING
Our eighth generation GPU architecture and the most powerful 
one the world has ever seen, Turing delivers 16 trillion floating 
point operations in parallel with 16 trillion integer operations 
per second. Enabling the world’s first real-time ray-tracing 
GPUs for gaming and professional graphics, Turing can 
simulate the physical world at 6x the speed of its predecessor. 
Four Quadro RT x Servers, equipped with eight Turing  
GPUs each, can do the rendering work of 240 dual-core CPU 
servers at 1/4th the cost, using 1/10 the space, and consuming 
1/11th the power. NVIDIA T4 GPUs are packed in an energy-
efficient, 75-watt form factor that offers 65 teraflops of peak 
performance for FP16, 130 TOPS for INT8 and 260 TOPS  
for INT4.NVIDIA XAVIER
Our x avier system-on-a-chip integrates the Volta GPU 
architecture, a custom eight-core CPU architecture, and a new 
computer vision accelerator. The processor performs at 30 
trillion operations per second while consuming only 30 watts 
of power. As the brain of self-driving cars, x avier is designed 
to comply with critical automotive standards, such as the ISO 
26262 functional safety specification. 
NVIDIA DGX SYSTEMS
Built on the NVIDIA Volta GPU architecture, the NVIDIA DG x 
Station, DG x POD, DG x-1, and DG x-2 are AI supercomputers 
that provide the compute power to train deep neural networks 
significantly faster and create more intelligent AI.
Designed variously for the desktop, the data center, or the 
cloud, the DG x systems’ efficient-energy consumption and fast 
computing mean a smaller IT infrastructure footprint and work 
that gets done more quickly. NGC  CONTAINER REGISTRY
NGC is a GPU-accelerated platform that enables data 
scientists and researchers to rapidly build, train, and 
deploy neural network models to address some of the most 
complicated AI challenges. It manages a catalog of fully 
integrated and optimized deep learning framework  
containers and is optimized to run on any accelerated 
computing environment. NVIDIA’S ENERGY EFFICIENT PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES INCLUDE:
49
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
NVIDIA JETSON
NVIDIA Jetson is the world’s leading AI computing platform 
for GPU-accelerated parallel processing in mobile embedded 
systems. The compute density, energy efficiency, and AI 
inferencing capabilities of the NVIDIA Jetson AG x xavier SoC 
offers high-performance, low-power computing for deep 
learning and computer vision that makes it the ideal platform 
for compute-intensive edge devices.NVIDIA TESLA
NVIDIA Tesla data center GPUs are the leading platform for 
accelerating HPC and hyperscale data center workloads, big 
data analytics, and scientific computing. The latest TOP500 list 
of the world’s fastest supercomputers shows that 127 of these 
systems use NVIDIA GPU accelerators, up from 86 systems 
a year ago. The latest Green500 list, which measures the 
energy-efficiency of the world’s fastest systems, shows that 
NVIDIA powers 22 of the top 25 “greenest” systems.
NVIDIA CUDA-X AI
CUDA is a parallel-computing platform and model that enables 
compute-intensive calculations to be executed on lower cost, 
power-efficient GPUs. More than 1,000 courses that use 
GPUs are being taught in universities all over the world, and 
NVIDIA supports more than 830,000 global developers who are 
programming with GPUs. Learn more about GPU computing .NVIDIA NVLINK
NVLink interconnect technology lets data move between 
GPUs and CPUs five to 12 times faster than they can with PCI-
Express. It doubles the number of GPUs that can work together 
in deep learning computations and enables more flexible and 
energy-efficient server design compared to PCI-E.
 > California Prop 65
 > China RoHS
 > Conflict Minerals
 > Directive on Packaging and 
Packaging Waste 
 > EU RoHS and Country  
Specific RoHS > EU REACH 
 > EU ELV 
 > Global Automotive Declarable 
Substance List (GADSL)
 > Halogen Free/Low Halogen
 > ISO 14001:2015 > korea RoHS 
 > OHSAS 18001  
(GB/T 28001-2011 in China)
 > Taiwan RoHS
 > EU WEEE and Country  
Specific WEEEREDUCING HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Our regulatory and certification guidelines for hazardous substances include: 50NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
MATERIALS 
AVAILABILITY
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Availability of materials; materials 
content; security of natural 
resources; conflict minerals; 
management systems to track 
supplier progress related to 
conflict minerals; product 
availability (finished goods from 
major suppliers)
We support, contribute to, and 
rely on industry-wide efforts to 
validate the source of minerals 
used in our products, ensuring 
that they come from socially 
responsible sources and do not 
contribute to human conflict. Our 
goal is to use only conflict-free gold, 
tantalum, tungsten, and tin from the 
Democratic Republic of Congo in 
our products. 
We’re a member of the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative (RMI) and Public-
Private Alliance for Responsible 
Minerals Trade. We support these 
on-the-ground programs aimed 
at improving transparency for 
responsible sourcing and reducing human rights risks, including  
forced labor. Our due diligence 
program regarding conflict 
materials is designed to conform 
in all material respects with the 
framework recommended by 
the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development. 
Review our policy  to understand  
our goals and the steps we take  
to monitor our supply chain for 
conflict minerals. 
Additionally, we participate in 
various RMI work groups and align 
our program with the organization’s 
tracking of additional minerals and 
materials, and with geographic 
areas of high concern. We monitor 
additional legal requirements, 
including the EU Conflict Minerals 
Regulations, to determine any 
future requirements for conflict 
materials and high-risk regions of 
the world.PACKAGING, 
TRANSPORT, 
AND LOGISTICS
HOW WE DEFINE IT:  
Issues related to the packaging 
and transport of products
Packaging
In packaging our products, we strive 
to maintain a balance of protecting 
the environment and ensuring 
that our customers receive their 
products in excellent condition.
Every new product we ship  
provides an opportunity to reduce 
packing materials and increase  
the proportion of recyclable 
materials used. 
Whether products are packaged 
for end-users or prepared for bulk 
shipping, we design our containers 
to maximize package density and 
reduce overall package size. 
For our SHIELD consumer products, 
we implemented changes in the first 
36 months of its availability, which 
resulted in reduced environmental 
51NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
impacts. These changes included 
development of smaller and lighter-
weight packaging sizes and creating 
a “core box” system so that primary 
packaging and shipping carton 
boxes can be shared among product 
SkUs. With product protection 
in mind, wherever plastics are 
required, we use recyclable  
HDPE-2 in place of polystyrene 
PS-6 material.
Additionally, wherever possible, 
we have stopped using anti-static 
foam material and transitioned to 
recyclable foam material. In FY19, 
we achieved a 21 percent reduction 
in total packaging materials used 
for GeForce and SHIELD products 
through the consideration of three 
metrics: total packaging weight, 
number of packaging components, 
and dimensional volume of 
packaging. To further improve our 
packaging sustainability, a cross-
functional team of stakeholders 
now meets weekly. Their top 
priorities include: removing 
film lamination, which in most 
communities renders packaging 
non-recyclable; switching the 
brand appearance from black ink 
to white, which facilitates removal 
of laminate; and switching tray 
components from plastics to paper-
based materials. For automotive systems and our 
biggest GPUs, such as the DG x-2, 
which requires shipping in a  
large cardboard box and protective 
foam, we aim to have all packaging 
material that is both recycled  
and recyclable. 
We’re also reducing paper use 
by providing online instructions 
wherever possible, although some 
markets still require printed 
instructions in the box.
Other efforts to recycle and 
reduce packaging include using 
vegetable-oil-based printing inks, 
using suppliers that leverage 
distribution centers to minimize 
the shipping footprint of packing/
packaging materials, and applying 
materials labels to 100 percent of 
our packages to simplify consumer 
recycling. Whenever possible, we 
use moisture-barrier bags, trays, 
and bulk cartons; ship products 
directly to the retail distributor; and 
use existing packaging for return 
merchandise authorization support. 
Our key packaging suppliers 
are compliant with NVIDIA’s 
Environmental Compliance 
Certification for Forestry 
Stewardship Council, ROHS, and 
REACH certifications. Transport and 
Logistics
The methods we use to plan, pack, 
and execute our raw material, 
work-in-progress, and finished-
goods shipments have an effect 
on our carbon footprint. Fuel 
represents a major component of 
our overall freight costs, and our 
continuous focus on optimizing our 
supply chain and reducing freight 
expenditures has resulted in cost 
savings and a positive impact on 
the environment. The efforts we’ve 
made to optimize logistics include: 
 >Efficiently configuring packing to 
reduce the number of pickups  
and deliveries; 
 >Ensuring that subcontractor 
cartons and pallets are fully 
packed and efficiently unitized; 
 >Using lightweight paper  
or cardboard pallets,  
whenever feasible, to reduce 
shipment weights; 
 >Using a multimodal (ocean/truck) 
replenishment program within 
the U.S. and for retail distribution 
outside the U.S. 
 >Requiring suppliers to  
report their participation in 
environmental initiatives on  
a quarterly basis; and
 >Using reverse logistics  
solutions that use onsite or 
regional failure verification 
and repair to streamline 
product returns and eliminate 
international shipments. 
We gather data from shipping 
partners related to the carbon 
emissions of our shipments from 
air, land, and sea. Our goal is to 
determine the appropriate metric  
by which to target reductions.In FY19, NVIDIA 
achieved a 21 
percent reduction 
in total packaging 
materials used 
for GeForce  
and SHIELD52GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT 08
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE PROGRESS COMMENTS
Maintain “Full” member status in the RBA. 100% Achieved
Expand quarterly business review process to include strategic 
mechanical, component, and packaging suppliers.100% Achieved
Work with suppliers deemed high risk to improve their RBA 
risk performance status.20% Work is ongoing  to improve 
supplier VAP scores deemed high 
or moderate risk.
Achieve 100 percent RMAP-compliant tantalum, tin, tungsten, 
and gold processing facilities.94% This calculation is based on the 
percentage of the processing 
facilities in our supply chain that 
are compliant, as determined 
by the Responsible Minerals 
Assurance Process (RMAP).
Pass updated ISO 14001 specification, which includes a 
focus on integration of electronics manufacturing services 
into business processes and considerations of the life-cycle 
perspective.100% Achieved
Rank all active suppliers for their compliance with the RBA 
Code of Conduct, leveraging our RBA membership and using 
the RBA-Online platform.90% We continue to evaluate  
high-spend suppliers and 
“preferred” suppliers.
Monitor disclosure demand for additional conflict minerals  
and materials.100% We’re aligned with RMI process.
Complete indirect supplier diversity analysis. 100% Achieved.
Evaluate clean energy options in data centers and India offices. 50% We secured clean power at  
several data centers and are 
finalizing contracts at our new 
Bangalore and Munich office 
locations. We are including 
clean energy considerations 
when siting new data centers. 
We are evaluating solar for our 
Hyderabad, India, office.
Implement ISO 50001 Energy Management System. 40% We are making progress 
at integrating ISO 50001 
requirements into our program.
Conduct climate and water risk assessment. 100% We completed a qualitative 
assessment of climate  
and water risk.  Quantitative 
analysis for certain risks is  
under consideration.FY19 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE53NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Complete gap analysis against the ISO18001 Health and Safety 
Management System standard.10% This gap analysis began in FY19 
and is planned for completion  
in FY20.
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION PROGRESS COMMENTS
Roll out second phase of unconscious bias programming, 
which includes implementing bias mitigation techniques into 
team dynamics activities.50% Evaluated several vendors and 
approaches but decided to instead 
evaluate our internal resources of 
team effectiveness, development, 
and promotion tools to identify 
how to incorporate bias-mitigating 
tactics into these programs 
instead. Will begin to roll out  
in FY20. 
Examine learning and development courses that cover meeting 
execution and collaboration to determine how to integrate 
bias-mitigating tactics.50% See directly above. 
Hire a diversity recruiter to increase the number of women and 
underrepresented minorities in the recruiting pipeline.80% We’ve assigned recruiters to 
shepherd candidates met at key 
diversity recruiting events (such as 
Grace Hopper) and ensure those 
resumes are guided through the 
hiring process. 
Track diverse hires through the recruiting funnel. 100% We developed a tracking 
mechanism for women, African-
American and Hispanic recruits. 
We pinpointed the phases in the 
funnel at which these candidates 
fall off or excel compared to 
candidates as a whole and are 
evaluating methods for improving 
the process where needed. 
Conduct an annual learning and development needs analysis 
with our NVIDIA Communities (formerly called employee 
resource groups).100% We identified as top themes: 
professional development 
(influencing, presentation  
skills, career development), 
technical training (NVIDIA-specific 
trainings, programming languages 
and machine learning), and 
manager training. 
Hold an event on our main campus to create awareness for 
NVIDIA Communities, and launch new websites for them.100% We hosted this event last fall 
and several hundred employees 
participated to learn more about 
our five Communities.FY19 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE  (cont.)
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE PROGRESS COMMENTS54NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
FY19 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE  (cont.)
RISKS AND REPUTATION PROGRESS COMMENTS
Board of Directors to commence oversight of corporate social 
responsibility.100% We began briefing the Nominating 
and Corporate Governance 
Committee in May 2018 and also 
provided Diversity and Inclusion 
overview in February 2019.
Develop training materials for our new Code of Conduct.  95% Training materials have been 
created and will be rolled out 
during FY20.
Update anti-bribery and create anti-trust policies. 60% Anti-bribery policy update is in 
process and anti-trust policy is 
being finalized for roll out  
during FY20.
Prepare for General Data Protection Regulation compliance. 100% We executed on our GDPR plan, 
including adoption of a worldwide 
privacy policy, implementation 
of online privacy center to allow 
users to exercise their data subject 
rights, and participation in the 
Privacy Shield.  As part of the 
GDPR plan, we also created and 
rolled out training materials  
to all employees.
Broaden the scope of our public relations coverage to promote 
our AI leadership.100% We’ve been covered in several 
articles  and recognized as an AI 
leader in various publications. 
Better understand our responsibility to address social issues 
related to AI, such as bias and workforce impact.100% We participated in Partnership for 
AI in FY19. 
Raise our profile in Washington, D.C., with regard to 
autonomous driving and AI research.100% See Public Policy Engagement  for 
activities undertaken in FY19. 
Launch a video series focusing on the people behind our CSR. 100% The series highlighted societal 
issues in AI, self-driving cars, 
healthcare, and robotics. 
Maintain inclusion on key workplace and CSR lists. 100% See Transparency  section for a list 
of ratings and rankings in which we 
are included. 55NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE
Maintain Full member status in the RBA.
Implement method to track, allocate and report NVIDIA scope 3 manufacturing GHG emissions from global 
supply chain to customers.  
Achieve 100 percent RMAP-compliant tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold processing facilities.
Rank all active suppliers for their compliance with the RBA Code of Conduct, leveraging our RBA membership 
and using the RBA-Online platform.
Work with suppliers deemed high risk to improve their RBA risk performance status.
Develop a product packaging environmental specification.
Third party auditor to complete an ISO 50001 Energy Management System gap analysis.
Continue tracking for LEED Gold points for planned second new Silicon Valley campus building.
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION
Leverage existing and evaluate potential new training and tools that focus on supporting managers to  
identify and mitigate bias in areas including career growth, cultural sensitivity, communications style, and 
management development.
Provide sponsorship of underrepresented groups in technology through partnerships with Black in AI and Latinx 
in AI.  Offer conference fees and travel for attendance to our GPU Technology Conference, host networking event 
at the event for these groups. Sponsor Black in AI at NeurIPS conference.
RISKS AND REPUTATION
Provide overviews to NVIDIA Board of Directors on Diversity and Inclusion and Societal Impacts of AI.
Review all strategic suppliers for cybersecurity and intellectual property alignment to NVIDIA standards.FY20 GOALS56NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
FY19 FY18 FY17
Revenue $11,716 $9,714 $6,910 
Total operating expenses $3,367 $2,612 $2,129 
Net income $4,141 $3,047 $1,666 
Gross margin 61.20% 59.90% 58.80%
Income tax expense (benefit) ($245) $149 $239 
Total assets $13,292 $11,241 $9,841 
Total shareholders’ equity $9,342 $7,471 $5,762 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $13,292 $11,241 $9,841 
Revenue by country/region See chart See chart See chart
R&D expenses $2,376 $1,797 $1,463 
Dollars represented in millions
Revenue by Region
Taiwan  
29%China  
24%
Other Asia Pacific  
20%United States  
13%
Europe  
8%Other Americas  
6%Taiwan  
31%China  
20%
Other Asia Pacific  
21%United States  
13%
Europe  
8%Other Americas  
7%Taiwan  
37%China  
19%
Other Asia Pacific  
15%United States  
13%
Europe  
9%Other Americas  
7%$11.72B
FY 2019$9.71B
FY 2018$6.91B
FY 201757NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
DIVERSITY AND 
WORKFORCE 
PERFORMANCE
Roughly 79 percent of our 
employees work in technical 
fields that are historically 
male-dominated. We seek to 
address gender imbalances in 
the technology and engineering 
fields through programs aimed at 
increasing the number of women 
and minorities in these fields. 
In FY19 we saw growth in our 
female and underrepresented 
groups, compared to traditional 
technical populations. 
Learn more about our approach to 
Diversity and Inclusion .Racial / Ethnic Diversity Snapshot*
FY19 FY18 FY17
Asian/Indian 50.20% 50.10% 51.00%
White 38.70% 41.10% 42.90%
Hispanic/Latino 3.30% 3.30% 3.40%
Black/African American 1.00% 1.00% 1.10%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.30% 0.30% 0.30%
American Indian/Alaska Native 0.10% 0.08% 0.13%
Two or more races 0.70% 0.54% 0.32%
Decline to state/not specified 5.70% 3.60% 0.89%
TOTAL 100% 100% 100%
* Minority data represents the United States only.
Gender Data
Men  
80.9
Women  
18.9%
Not Declared  
0.21%Men  
81.4%
Women  
18.6%%
Not Declared  
0%Men  
81.5%
Women  
18.4%
Not Declared  
0.10%FY19
POPULATIONFY18
POPULATIONFY17
POPULATION58
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Gender Turnover
The turnover rate for women was slightly lower in FY19 compared to men, 5.6% to 5.7% respectively.  
These ranges have remained similar for the past several years.POSITIONS HELD BY WOMEN FY19 FY18 FY17
Outside directors 18.0% 20.0% 18.2%
Executive officers 40.0% 40.0% 40.0%
Leaders 11.0% 8.5% 11.8%
Managers 16.5% 16.1% 15.9%
In technical roles 13.7% 13.3% 12.9%
In global workforce 18.9% 18.6% 18.4%
New hires, % globally 20.4% 19.2% 23.7%
New hires, number globally 501 353 410Positions Held By Women
Age Data
20-30 Years  
23.4%
31-50 Years  
62.5%
50+ Years  
14.1%20-30 Years  
23.5%
31-50 Years  
62.7%
50+ Years  
13.8%20-30 Years  
24.6%
31-50 Years  
62.0%
50+ Years  
13.4%FY19
POPULATIONFY18
POPULATIONFY17
POPULATIONFY19 FY18 FY17
Female 5.6% 5.4% 6.7%
Male 5.7% 5.3% 6.3%59
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Promotions
In FY19, we promoted 11.6 percent 
of our workforce. Of the 1,546 
promotions, women comprised 286 
(18.5 percent, which is roughly the 
total percentage in the company). 
In the U.S., 507 of U.S. promotions 
were given to members of minority 
groups. Women continue to be 
promoted at an equal rate to men, 
11.3 percent v 11.7 percent in FY19.FY19 FY18 FY17
Overall Turnover 5.6% 5.6% 6.7%
Voluntary Turnover 5.4% 5.1% 5.8%
WORKFORCE PERFORMANCE
Our workforce metrics, combined with employee survey data, help us determine how we can improve in specific areas 
throughout our enterprise.
We gather information for this report at the end of the fiscal year, and the data points in the accompanying charts 
reflect a snapshot of our employee base at that time. 
FY19 FY18 FY17
Employees 13,277 11,528 10,299
Offices 57 48 42
Countries 22 21 20Employee ProfileTurnover
Even though the high-tech industry is extremely competitive, NVIDIA’s 
turnover remained at 5.6 percent in FY19, compared with the semiconductor 
industry average of 16.9 percent. Our voluntary turnover rate is 5.4 percent, 
well below the semiconductor industry average of 11 percent.
COUNT OF ALL EMPLOYEE TYPES
Region FULL TIME PART TIMECONTRAC -
TORS INTERNS
Americas 7,267 3 1,341 160
APAC 2,484 - 380 89
India 2,517 - 1,879 108
EMEA 978 28 89 23
Total Count 13,246 31 3,689 380Headcount by Type60
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
New Hires by RegionNew Hires by Age Group New Hires by Gender
2,456
TOTAL HIRES1,844
TOTAL HIRES20-30 Years  
1,901 (44.4%)
31-50 Years  
1,190 (48.5%)
50+ Years  
175 (7.1%)
Americas  
1,356 (55.21%)
APAC  
408 (16.61%)
India  
445 (18.12%)
EMEA  
247 (10.06%)Male  
1932 (78.7%)
Female  
501 (20.4%)
Not Declared  
23 (0.94%)
2,456
TOTAL HIRESEmployee Type by Level
Executive
24
(0.2%)Management
2,319
(17.5%)Regular Employee
10,934
(82.4%)Total
13,27761NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE
FY19 RBA Member Compliance
COMPLIANCE ELEMENTNVIDIA’S 
REQUIREMENT NVIDIA PERFORMANCE
Risk assessment on all  
strategic suppliers100% 100%
Self-assessment questionnaires 
(SAQ) completed by suppliers in 
the top 80% of NVIDIA spending100% 100%
Based on RBA requirements, NVIDIA’s SAQ review 
determined there were no suppliers rated as high risk in 
our top spend.
Validated audit process (VAP) 
among 25% of high-risk suppliers0 (due to lack of high-
risk suppliers from 
SAQ)We audit suppliers even if their SAQ score comes back as 
low risk.
We require VAP audits to validate supplier SAQs.  
Through this process one strategic* supplier came  
back as high risk.
In FY19, we reviewed VAP audits of 50% of strategic  
suppliers. The total percentage of strategic suppliers 
audited in the last two years is 60%. 
In FY19, we reviewed an additional 19 VAP audits from 
high-spend suppliers (spend > $1 million).  
*Strategic suppliers include those who produce or handle NVIDIA 
production material, non-critical suppliers for whom we closely 
manage quality requirements, suppliers who design our branded 
products, and those we are required to work with based on customer 
agreements.
Corrective action plans (CAP) 0 (due to lack of high-
risk suppliers)We engaged six suppliers on their CAPs from the FY18-19 
auditing season. Common findings include working hours, 
social insurance, and fire protection.
We’ll continue monitoring to ensure that suppliers 
demonstrate effective processes to close these findings 
and ensure compliance.62NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
FY19 RBA Member Compliance
RBA CODE ELEMENTNVIDIA AS 
SUPPLIER NVIDIA AS CUSTOMER
Labor Updated NVIDIA’s 
Code of Conduct to 
strengthen human 
rights language.
Relevant NVIDIA 
employees took 
several RBA Learning 
Academy courses.
Participate in the 
RBA’s Responsible 
Labor Initiative.We evaluated all contract manufacturers and direct 
material suppliers on geographic location, manufacturing 
processes, past SER performance and public reports.
We tracked supplier working hours through VAP, CAPs, or 
RBA working-hours templates.
We worked with suppliers to address and comply with 
zero hiring fees and freely chosen employment.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight 
suppliers, including: Hours of Work; Working Hours 
Recording System; Working Hours Management System; 
The Hiring Process; Recruitment and Selection; Hiring 
and Working with Migrant Workers; Wages and Benefits; 
Creating Motivating Wage Systems; Improving Your 
Dormitories.
Health and Safety Conducted an annual 
tour of all NVIDIA 
offices to audit health 
and safety
Updated 
environmental,  
health, safety and 
energy policyWe closed CAPs covering all health and safety issues.
We reviewed improvement plans on health and safety as 
part of OHSAS 18001 for alignment with eight suppliers.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight 
suppliers: Effective H&S Systems, Fire Safety, Managing 
Air Emissions.
Ethics Continued 
membership in RMI
Participated in RMI 
work groups on 
due-diligence data 
collection and smelter 
engagement We engaged 100% of suppliers to collect smelter data for 
our conflict minerals program.
We continued evaluation of smelter metrics for the annual 
SEC conflict minerals reporting requirement.
We deactivated suppliers non-compliant with product and 
conflict mineral requirements.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight 
suppliers: Supply Chain Ethics; Recognizing Forced 
Labor; Preventing Forced Labor.63NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Environmental Received a B- score 
via CDP Supplier 
Engagement survey.
Completed RBA  
online environmental 
survey on carbon, 
water, and waste 
Participated in 
environmental 
sustainability  
work group We calculated carbon, water, waste data of all silicon 
manufacturers and systems contract manufacturers to 
determine carbon emissions and water consumption per 
product and per financial outlay.
We required compliance with environmental standards 
(see Manufacturing Compliance sidebar ).
We reviewed suppliers’ environmental improvement 
plans for ISO 14001 alignment.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight 
suppliers: Environmental Protection; Managing Energy 
and GHG Emissions; Water and Wastewater Management; 
Resolving Wastewater Treatment Issues; and Managing 
Waste.
Management Systems Participated in VAP 
work group
Evaluated RBA full 
membership tier to 
determine any gaps 
(accepted in January 
2018 as full member)We conducted quarterly business reviews of suppliers.
We assessed compliance with updated RBA Code with 
respect to labor fees and freedom of association.
We implemented a performance-based award system for 
strategic suppliers.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight 
suppliers: Understanding Supply Chain Responsibility; 
Industry Standards; Responsible Supply Chain 
Management (for Factory Management); Supply Chain 
CSR Monitoring; and Using k PIs.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Environmental Policy Mapping
POLICY TYPE RESPONSE
Assurance of Scope 1, 2, and 3 global GHG emissions Yes 
Environmental policy Yes
Corporate responsibility directive Yes
Environmental supply chain management directive RBA members
ISO 14001 certified sites 1 (Silicon Valley, Calif.)
Emissions reduction initiatives Yes 
Waste reduction initiatives Yes 
Water reduction initiatives Yes RBA CODE ELEMENTNVIDIA AS 
SUPPLIER NVIDIA AS CUSTOMER64NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Climate change policy See our Environmental, Health, Safety and Energy Policy
Climate change opportunities discussed Yes; see CDP
Climate change risks discussed Yes; see CDP
Number of significant environmental fines 0
Amount of significant environmental fines $0 
Environmental Objectives
CATEGORY GOALTARGET 
DATE/STATUS FY19 PROGRESS
Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions, 
Offices, and 
DatacentersA 15% greenhouse gas reduction — 
normalized per employee — by FY2020 
from baseline year FY2014 FY20/Ongoing Down 7.2% compared to FY19  
and down 20.3% compared to  
FY14 baseline
Waste A waste-to-landfill diversion rate of 80% 
or greater each year at our Silicon Valley 
headquartersAnnual/Ongoing 90% (calendar year 2018)
New 
Headquarters 
BuildingsLEED Gold certification for our Silicon 
Valley headquarters buildingsFY20/Ongoing LEED Gold certification achieved  
for first building. Currently on 
track for Gold status with  
second building.
Consumer 
Product 
Packaging15% reduction in total materials used 
compared to previous generationFY19/Complete 21% reduction in packaging for 
GeForce and SHIELD products 
Product 
Efficiency30% improved power efficiency in idle 
state (as defined by Energy Star) for next 
generation of GPUs for data centers, 
desktops, and notebooks FY19/Complete Achieved
Greenhouse Gas Data
METRIC FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15a
GHG Scope 1, total global (tCO2e) 2,671 2,370 2,571 2,419 3,339
Stationary natural gas 2,379 2,267 2,313 2,316 2,483
Stationary distillate fuel oil 54 43 78 71 205
Gasoline 119 44 42 16 14
Refrigerants 118 16 139 16 63765NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs)  
(Santa Clara headquarters  
lab operations)<1 kg <1 kg Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked
GHG Scope 2, total global (tCO2e), 
market-based a 59,855 56,903 47,142 43,889 48,519
Purchased and used electricity 59,035 56,460 46,721 43,487 48,117
Purchased heating/cooling 820 443 421 402 402
Total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 
2 total – tCO2e) a 62,525 59,273 49,713 46,308 51,858
Normalized GHG emissions  
per employee (Scope 1 and 2  
total/headcount)3.60 3.88 4.01 4.26 4.81
% change in normalized GHG 
emissions per employee, 
compared to FY14-20% -14% -11% -6% 6%
GHG Scope 2, total global (tCO2e)a, 
location-based64,940 50,863 51,224 48,774 49,662
GHG Scope 3 (tCO2e) 427,730 326,648 277,014 237,579 117,762
Purchased goods and services 
(indirect procurement)254,071 190,734 150,741 159,976 42,791
Capital goods 49,964 50,463 78,076 31,748 30,829
Fuel- and energy-related 
activities not included in  
Scope 1 and 224,146 21,613 20,246 19,055 20,623
Upstream transportation  
and distribution d 38,352 28,590 Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked
Waste generated in operations b991 405 240 839 184
Business travel 51,525 31,360 25,064 23,285 20,083
Upstream Leased Assets 8,681 3,483 2,647 2,676 3,252
Scope 1 carbon dioxide emissions 
(metric tons)2,547 2,349 2,427 2,398 2,695
Scope 1 nitrous oxide emissions 
(metric tons)2 2 2 2 2Greenhouse Gas Data (cont.)
METRIC FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15a66NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Scope 1 methane emissions 
(metric tons)4 3 4 3 4
Sulfur dioxide emissions  
(metric tons) h 0 0.08 0.14 0.12 0.36
VOC emissions (metric tons) h0.24 0.17 0.16 0.15 0.43
Carbon monoxide emissions 
(metric tons) h 0.31 0.25 0.44 0.41 1.17
ODS emissions from HCFCs 
(metric tons R-11e) h 0.006 0.003 0.01 0.004 0.009
Particulate emissions  
(metric tons) h 0.10 0.08 0.14 0.13 0.38
Energy, Waste, and Watera
METRIC FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15
Energy used (global) (MWh) 197,923 154,024 138,888 130,620 131,038
Energy per headcount (global) (MWh/employee) 11.41 10.09 11.20 12.01 12.15
Non-renewable fuels purchased and consumed (MWh) 13,614 12,894 13,270 13,217 14,652
Non-renewable electricity purchased (MWh) 95,036 88,905 89,964 84,419 76,180
Steam/heating/cooling and other energy  
(non-renewable) purchased (MWh)253 196 185 141 131
Total renewable energy purchased or generated for 
own consumption (MWh) e 89,020 52,029 35,470 32,844 40,075
Renewable electricity as percentage of total electricity e48% 37% 29% 36% 24%
Total power generated, onsite solar (MWh) 772 719 0 0 0
Water withdrawal, global (cubic meters) 320,013 265,030 213,625 196,309 260,054
Surface water 0 0 0 0 0
Groundwater 32,208 20,264 13,535 24,364 5,199
Rainwater collected directly & stored 0 0 0 0 0Greenhouse Gas Data (cont.)
METRIC FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15a67NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Wastewater from another organization 47,737 13,796 0 0 0
Municipal water supplies or other public/private  
water utilities240,068 230,970 200,090 171,945 254,855
Percent of water (internally) recycled 0 0 0 0 0
Water consumption, global (cubic meters) f95,969 61,169  39,506 29,127 57,193
Water discharge, global (cubic meters) 224,044 203,860 174,119 167,182 202,861
Total waste, corporate headquarters (metric tons) g18,344 c2,670 2,987 15,626 c1,242
Total waste recycled/composted (metric tons) 16,554 c1,973 2,260 14,790 976
Landfill diversion rate 90% 74% 76% 95% 79%
General waste recycled 1,288 334 138 105 232
General waste composted 1,008 874 799 651 594
Clean paper recycled 29 102 145 70 86
Batteries recycled 46 2 2 1 1
Hazardous waste recycled 4 0.4 1 1 1
Electronic waste recycled 128 59 63 96 62
Lamps recycled 0.2 0.5 1 1 0.5
Construction/demolition waste recycled 14,051 c602 1,111 13,866 c0
Total waste landfilled (metric tons) 1,790 696 726 836 266
General Waste landfilled 617 474 480 349 266
Hazardous waste landfilled 0 0 0 0 0
Construction/demolition waste landfilled 1,174 223 246 487 0
a Selected historic values have been updated to reflect changes in methodologies or corrections to data. For example, we are now calculating Scope 2 market-based and location-based 
emissions per the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol and have updated prior years’ data to align with the new methodology. 
b In FY16, we began reporting on Scope 3 GHG emissions for waste generated at corporate headquarters.
c We accumulated a large amount of demolition debris as part of our project to construct new Silicon Valley headquarters buildings. 88% of this debris was recycled in FY16 and 92% in FY19. 
d In FY18, we started reporting Scope 3 upstream transportation emissions.
e In FY18, we started calculating our global renewable energy use, excluding grid and including renewables from generation, utilities and residual mix. Previous years only reflect 
renewables from local utility in Silicon Valley.
f Water consumption includes water consumed by landscaping and evaporated in cooling tower for our new headquarters building.
g Waste data for corporate headquarters is estimated on a calendar year basis. 
h As of FY18, these metrics have been calculated and reported with historical year values updated. ODS emissions are from HCFCs; sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide and particulate 
emissions are from diesel generators. VOCs are from diesel generators and Santa Clara campus lab solvent usage (e.g. wipe cleaning).Energy, Waste, and Watera (cont.)
METRIC FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY1568NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Environmental Health and Safety
Lost-time incident rate 0%
Total recordable incident rate 0%
We track, but do not currently publish, the following health and safety metrics for employees and contractors:
 >Accidents 
 >Fatalities
 >Leave of absence requests
PHILANTHROPY AND VOLUNTEER PERFORMANCE
FY19 FY18 FY17 
Percent of NVIDIA offices holding charitable-giving events 73% 65% 90%
Offices participating in Project Inspire events 15 14 12
# of Project Inspire events 12 12 10
Volunteers 4,343 2,937 4,072
Volunteer rate, total 34% 27% 42%
Volunteer rate, unique 18% 21% 30%
Number/value of volunteer hours 13,077/$322,871 9,394/$226,771 17,400/$417,600
Donations, company cash $2,452,229 $3,043,878 $2,392,044 
Donations, in-kind $242,868 $292,437 $184,349 
Donations, employee $602,481 $1,062,493 $389,812 
Total donations $3,297,578 $4,398,808 $2,966,205 
Administrative overhead 9% 4% 8%
GRI INDEX
We applied the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards  to 
produce this FY19 CSR Report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. 
Per the GRI Standards, we indicate the location of the required “General Disclosures” and each of the “Topic-Standard 
Disclosures” related to our priority issues (“Management Approach for Material Topics” and selected disclosures). 
In some cases, we provide a direct response to disclosures or additional information related to content located in the 
main pages of the report within the index itself.69NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
2019 GRI Content Index
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016*
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization 2019 10-K
102-2 Activities, brands, products,  
and services2019 10-K  
About NVIDIA  
NVIDIA Products
102-3 Location of headquarters Santa Clara, California, USA
102-4 Location of operations Our Locations
Significant operations in US (California), India and China. 
Offices in 21 countries. 
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2019 Proxy Statement  
102-6 Markets served Our Locations  
2019 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization. Goals and Performance, Economic  
Goals and Performance, Diversity and Workforce  
NVIDIA Products
102-8 Information on employees and 
other workersGoals and Performance, Diversity and Workforce
NVIDIA employs several contract employees globally  
who provide a variety of roles across our operations  
and administrative functions. Current temporary  
worker percentage is 21% of total headcount  
(employees + contractors). 
102-9 Supply chain Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
102-10 Significant changes to the 
organization and its supply chainNone.
102-11 Precautionary Principle  
or approachWe do not specifically apply the precautionary principle. A 
description of the role of the Board in risk oversight is located 
in the 2019 Proxy Statement.
2019 Proxy Statement
102-12 External initiatives Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
102-13 Membership of associations Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality70NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior  
decision-makerExecutive Letters, Message from our CEO  
Executive Letters, Message from our EVP of Operations
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behavior Governance, Ethical Conduct
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethicsGovernance, Ethical Conduct
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance
NVIDIA has two committees responsible for decision-making 
on economic, environmental, and social topics: an executive-
level committee, and a staff-level committee. NVIDIA’s board-
level Nominating and Governance Committee oversees CSR. 
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employees in the US, Canada, India and APAC regions are not 
unionized. Employees in Brazil are unionized and make up 
less than .2% of our total population. Employees in France, 
Finland, Germany, Italy, and Poland (which make up 3.7% of 
our total employee population) could participate in unions 
but NVIDIA is legally not allowed to inquire with them about 
their involvement. NVIDIA participates in collective bargaining 
agreements in France, Finland and Italy. Employees in France 
and Germany have formal representation on work councils.
102-42 Identifying and  
selecting stakeholdersStakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
102-43 Approach to  
stakeholder engagementNo engagement undertaken specifically as part of the report.  
Stakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
102-44 key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders, Stakeholder EngagementGRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016* (cont.)
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER71NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements 2019 10-K  
102-46 Defining report content and  
topic BoundariesPriorities
102-47 List of material topics Priorities
102-48 Restatements of information There were no restatements of information.
102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant changes in reporting.
102-50 Reporting period About this Report
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2018
102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report
102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportAbout this Report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 
Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance Environment, Greenhouse Gas and Climate Change
We did not seek external assurance for the report. 
NVIDIA’s internal audit group reviews elements of our CSR 
program to ensure it had adequate governance structure. 
They benchmarked the CSR report against comparable 
companies, and assessed program ownership, monitoring, 
and communications. They also evaluated key metrics in the 
CSR report for accuracy, included those related to community 
giving, economic, diversity, environmental, packaging, supply 
chain, and workforce.  We provide limited assurance  for scope 
1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, and scope 3 waste.
* NVIDIA’s 2019 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information  
 presented in this report.GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016* (cont.)
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER72NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
2019 GRI Content Index
GRI 103: TOPICS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES 2016*
MATERIAL 
TOPICMANAGEMENT APPROACH  
CROSS-REFERENCERELEVANT  
ExTERNAL ENTITIES
Economic
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
20162019 10-K  
2018 CDP Customers  
Consumers  
Shareholders  
Developers  
Suppliers  
Government  
Communities
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
BehaviorEconomic, Business Model and Competitiveness Customers  
Government  
Shareholders
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy 
2016Environment, Energy  
Environment, Environmental Impacts of ProductsCustomers  
Consumers  
Developers  
Suppliers
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016Environment, Materials Availability  
Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality  
Goals and Performance, Supply ChainSuppliers
Social
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016Social, Talent Strategy  
Stakeholders, Stakeholder EngagementProspective employees  
Shareholders
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016Social, Employee Engagement Prospective employees
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality  Customers  
Shareholders  
Suppliers
GRI 418: 
Customer 
Privacy 2016Economic, Cybersecurity  
NVIDIA Privacy PolicyCustomers  
Consumers  
Shareholders  
Governments
* NVIDIA’s 2019 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information  
 presented in this report.73NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
2019 GRI Content Index
GRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016*
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTIONCROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS, 
AND E xPLANATIONS
Economic
GRI 201: 
Economic 
Performance 
2016201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributedGoals and Performance, Economic  
2019 10-K  
NVIDIA Foundation Report
201-2 Financial implications and 
other risks and opportunities 
due to climate change2018 CDP submission
201-4 Government financial 
assistanceWe have funding from the Department 
of Energy, DARPA and the Department 
of Defense for GPU-related research. 
No governments are present in NVIDIA’s 
shareholder structure.
Stakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
Jensen Huang’s Speech at Unveiling 
of Energy Department’s Summit 
Supercomputer
NVIDIA To Collaborate with DARPA to 
Develop Systems for Post-Moore’s Law Era
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, anti-
trust, and monopoly practicesIn FY19 there were no legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly 
practices.
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy 
2016302-1 Energy consumption within 
the organizationGoals and Performance, Environment
302-3 Energy intensity Goals and Performance, Environment
302-4 Reductions in energy 
consumptionEnergy consumption initiatives implemented 
during FY19 are projected to deliver total 
annual electricity savings of 3,492 gigajoules.  
The projections are derived from engineering 
estimates. Initiatives include upgrades to 
high efficiency lighting, HVAC and controls; 
installation of a high efficiency hybrid chiller 
and data center equipment tuning to increase 
efficiency. 
302-5 Reductions in energy 
requirements of products  
and servicesEnvironment, Environmental Impact of 
Products  
Goals and Performance, Environment74NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
GRI 303: Water 
2016**303-1 Water withdrawal by source Goals and Performance, Environment
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016**305-1 Scope 1 GHG emissions Goals and Performance, Environment
305-2 Scope 2 GHG emissions Goals and Performance, Environment
305-3 Scope 3 GHG emissions Goals and Performance, Environment
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Our GHG emissions intensity, ratio is 3.60, 
compared to 4.52 in our baseline fiscal 2014. 
The metric chosen to calculate the ratio 
is our global headcount of employees and 
contractors = 17,346 in FY19. Scope 1 and 
scope 2 (62,525 CO2e) are included in the 
intensity ratio. 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment, Greenhouse Gas and Climate 
Change  
Goals and Performance, Environment
305-6 Emissions of ODS Goals and Performance, Environment
305-7 NOx, SOx, and other 
significant air emissionsGoals and Performance, Environment
GRI 306: 
Effluents and 
Waste 2016**306-2 Waste by type and  
disposal methodGoals and Performance, Environment
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
Compliance 
2016**307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulationsTo date, we have not incurred significant 
expenses related to environmental 
regulatory compliance matters.
Goals and Performance, Environment
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016308-1 New suppliers screened using 
environmental criteriaIn 2016 we implemented a process for new 
suppliers, which includes screening them for 
environmental and social criteria. 100% of 
new suppliers were screened in FY19.
Goals and Performance, Supply ChainGRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016* (cont.)
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTIONCROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS, 
AND E xPLANATIONS75NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Social
GRI 401: 
Employment 
2016401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnoverGoals and Performance, Diversity and 
Workforce
401-2 Full-time benefits not 
provided  to temporary/part-
time employeesWe provide employees with a comprehensive 
benefits package (see NVIDIA benefits for 
more information). US employees are  
eligible to enroll in NVIDIA’s health and 
welfare programs if they are regular, 
full-time or part-time employees normally 
scheduled to work 20 hours or more per 
week and more than 5 months/year. Part-
time employees working fewer than 20 
hours/week are not eligible.
Social, Employee Engagement  
NVIDIA benefits
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsTransition support is available through 
the Employee Assistance Program, which 
is available through COBRA. In some 
cases, NVIDIA may provide outplacement 
services. NVIDIA’s Learning & Development 
organization provides skills building and 
lifelong learning opportunities.
Social, Employee Engagement
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular 
performance and career 
development reviews100% of employees receive  
regular performance and career 
development reviews.
GRI 405: 
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 
2016**405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employeesGoals and Performance, Diversity and 
Workforce
Our board gender/racial diversity is 25%. 
NEO gender diversity is 40% and NEO gender, 
racial, and ethnic diversity is 80%.
GRI 407: 
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 
2016**407-1 Operations and suppliers in 
which the right to freedom 
of association and collective 
bargaining might be at riskWe ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self- 
Assessment Questionnaires on an annual 
basis, in which they self-report information 
on freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. We validate this with critical Tier 
1 suppliers through the RBA Validated Audit 
Process protocol.
NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct  
Corporate Responsibility Directive  
RBA Code of ConductGRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016* (cont.)
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTIONCROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS, 
AND E xPLANATIONS76NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
GRI 408: Child 
Labor 2016**408-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of 
child laborWe ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self- 
Assessment Questionnaires on an annual 
basis, in which they self-report information 
on child labor. We validate this with critical 
tier 1 suppliers through the RBA Validated 
Audit Process protocol. 
Goals and Performance, Supply Chain  
NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct  
RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 409: Forced 
or Compulsory 
Labor 2016**409-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory laborWe ask our suppliers to submit RBA Self- 
Assessment Questionnaires on an annual 
basis, in which they self-report information 
on forced or bonded labor. We validate this 
with critical tier 1 suppliers through the RBA 
Validated Audit Process protocol.
Goals and Performance, Supply Chain  
Combatting Trafficking in Persons Policy  
RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 414: 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria In 2016 we implemented a process for new 
suppliers, which includes screening them for 
environmental and social criteria. 100% of 
new suppliers were screened in FY19.
Goals and Performance, Supply Chain
GRI 417: 
Marketing and 
Labeling 2016**417-2 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and 
service information and 
labelingWe consider significant incidents of non-
compliance those that are disclosed in the 
company’s SEC filings. There were no such 
incidents in FY19 that fell into this category.
GRI 418: 
Customer 
Privacy 2016418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses 
of customer dataWe consider significant substantiated 
complaints those that are disclosed in 
the company’s SEC filings. There were no 
substantiated complaints in FY19 that fell 
into this category.
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 
2016**419-1 Non-compliance with laws 
and regulations in the social 
and economic areaWe consider significant fines those that are 
required to be disclosed in the company’s 
SEC filings. We were not subject to any 
significant fines in FY19 for non-compliance 
with laws and regulations.
* NVIDIA’s 2019 Sustainability Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information  
 presented in this report.
** We have reported additional disclosures not related to material topics.GRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016* (cont.)
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTIONCROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS, 
AND E xPLANATIONS77
NVIDIA 2019 CSR REPORTABOUT  THIS REPORT
The NVIDIA FY19 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report covers our 
economic, social, and environmental 
performance for the fiscal year, which 
ended January 27, 2019. This report has 
been prepared in accordance with the 
GRI Standards: Core  option. We’ve  
been reporting through GRI publicly 
since 2010. 
Previous sustainability reports:  
FY18  
FY17  
FY16
We determined the content for this 
report based on conversations 
among management and 
engagement with several 
stakeholders. No significant 
changes have occurred during the 
reporting period with regard to the 
scope, boundary, or measurement 
methods applied in this report. Distributing this 
Report
We promote the availability of our report 
through:
 >Targeted employee 
communications,  
including executives
 >Outreach to stakeholders and 
reporting organizations with 
which we have built relationships
 >Individual outreach to 
shareholder groups that make 
inquiries throughout the year
 >Our social media channels,  
which reach more than  
22 million individuals
We welcome feedback on this report 
and our performance. Please send 
comments and suggestions to 
globalcitizenship@nvidia.com  or to:
NVIDIA  
Corporate Responsibility  
2788 San Tomas Expressway  
Santa Clara, CA 95051The information contained in this 
report is accurate as of approximately 
June 7, 2019 unless a different date is 
used in this report. The information is 
subject to change, and NVIDIA will not 
necessarily disclose such changes. The 
information may be updated, amended, 
supplemented, or otherwise altered by 
subsequent reports or filings by NVIDIA.
Certain statements included or 
incorporated by reference in this 
report, other than statements or 
characterizations of historical 
fact, including, but not limited to, 
statements as to:  our growth; our 
market opportunities; the performance, 
impact and benefits of our products 
and technologies; our strategies; 
our priorities, goals, and objectives; 
market trends; future forecasts; and 
other predictions and estimates are 
forward-looking statements and are 
based on our current expectations, 
estimates, and projections about our 
industry, and our management’s beliefs 
and assumptions. We caution readers 
that these statements are merely 
predictions and are not guarantees of 
future results. Actual events may differ 
materially, perhaps adversely.
Our Annual Report on Form 10- k, 
subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8- k, and 
other filings made with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission discuss 
some of the important risk factors that 
could contribute to differences between 
projections and outcomes, which 
could affect our business, operational 
results, and financial condition. Except 
as required by law, NVIDIA does not 
recognize any obligation to revise or 
update any forward-looking statements.
© 2019 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA and the NVIDIA logo are registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.