2018  
SUSTAINABILITY  
REPORT HIGHLIGHTSFOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 2Outlooks, projections, estimates, goals, descriptions of business and community 
plans, research efforts and other statements of future events or conditions in this 
report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results, including future 
earnings, returns to investors and other areas of financial and operating performance; 
future global energy supply, demand and mix; future distributions; proved and other 
reserves; reserve and resource additions and recoveries; the future effectiveness of 
safety, health, environmental and other sustainability risk and impact management 
processes; efficiency gains; and the timing and impact of future technologies could 
differ materially due to factors, including:
Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, with many names including 
ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso and XTO Energy. For convenience and simplicity, 
those terms (and terms such as corporation, company, our , we and its) are sometimes 
used as abbreviated references to specific affiliates or affiliate groups. ExxonMobil is a 
publicly traded company. The New York Stock Exchange is the principal exchange on 
which Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock (symbol XOM) is traded. References to 
the resources, resource base, and recoverable resources, along with similar terms refer 
to the total remaining estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that are expected 
to be ultimately recoverable. ExxonMobil refers to new discoveries and acquisitions 
of discovered resources as resource additions. The resource base includes quantities 
of oil and natural gas classified as proved reserves as well as quantities that are not 
yet classified as proved reserves, but that are expected to be ultimately recoverable. 
The term “resource base” is not intended to correspond to SEC definitions such as 
“probable” or “possible” reserves. The term “in-place” refers to those quantities of 
oil and natural gas estimated to be contained in known accumulations and includes 
recoverable and unrecoverable amounts. “Potential” resource amounts are not 
currently included in the resource base. The term “project” as used in this release 
can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same 
meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.• Changes in demand, supply and pricing for oil and natural gas and other factors 
affecting the oil, gas, petroleum and petrochemical industries; 
• Political and regulatory factors, including war , security disturbances, national tax 
policies, trade policies, environmental policies and the impact of international 
accords and treaties;
• Changes in population size, purchasing power and consumer preferences; 
• The timely completion of current exploration, development and construction projects;
• Actions of competitors, including the development of competing technologies; 
• The outcome of current and future research efforts and the ability to bring new 
technologies to scale on a cost-competitive basis; 
• Technical and operating factors; and 
• Other factors discussed in the document, Factors Affecting Future Results.TABLE OF CONTENTSAddressing the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals
The United Nations adopted the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) to achieve significant 
progress on global economic, social and environmental 
challenges by 2030. Although directed at governments, 
the private sector and civil society play an important role 
in support of governments’ national plans. ExxonMobil 
contributes to certain aspects of all 17 SDGs. In this 
report, we feature eight SDGs to which ExxonMobil is 
making significant contributions. We include the most 
relevant SDG icons (below) that correspond with each 
section of this 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights at 
the top of each section page.Foreword
Chairman’s letter
ExxonMobil and sustainability
Stakeholder engagement 
External Sustainability Advisory Panel statement
Environment
Managing climate change risks 
Developing innovative products and technology 
Waste management 
Social
Safety 
Healthy and engaged workforce
Human rights 
Community investments
Governance
Ethics and integrity 
Board leadership
Engaging with governments
Case study
About the Sustainability 
Report Highlights
Performance data3
4
6
7
8
9
12
14
16
17
19
21
23
26
27
28
30
32
35
3637
8
19 16
26 32FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 3I’m proud to share our Sustainability Report for 2018. It details our 
company’s commitment to responsibly manage our environmental, 
social and governance performance.
Our industry plays a critical role providing the energy that supports 
economic growth and improves the quality of life for billions of 
people around the world. Over the next several decades, populations 
are projected to grow and the middle class will continue to expand – 
dynamics that will further the demand for energy. 
Meeting this demand will require significant investment and new 
production in the energy sector . Increased demand for energy will 
also impact emission levels, which underscores the need to continue 
to pursue emission reduction efforts to mitigate the risks of  
climate change. 
ExxonMobil is helping address this dual challenge in a variety of ways 
through researching and developing next-generation technologies, 
developing products that help customers reduce their emissions, 
improving energy efficiency and advancing public policy solutions.   
On the technology front, we’re stepping up efforts to research 
potential breakthrough technology to reduce emissions through 
collaborations with governments, more than 80 universities, civil 
society groups and other industry partners. 
Recently, we entered into an agreement with the U.S. National 
Laboratories to commit up to $100 million to research lower-
emissions solutions, including carbon capture and storage. Our 
decade of research and development of lower-carbon biofuels from 
algae is progressing through large-scale outdoor testing. We are also 
furthering our research into evaluating the use of cellulosic sugars 
from agricultural waste to produce biofuel.  
In addition, we reached agreements with carbon capture technology 
companies such as Mosaic Materials and Global Thermostat 
to evaluate ways to scale these promising technologies. And 
we’re continuing research into how fuel cells might play a role in 
significantly reducing the costs of carbon capture.
On the policy front, we support the Paris Agreement as a global 
framework to coordinate government policies. We also support 
market-based approaches to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, 
including further regulation of methane emissions and a carbon tax.  
We believe market-based policies that place a uniform, predictable 
cost on greenhouse gas emissions more effectively drive consumer 
behavior and support technology innovation. In 2018, we provided financial support for “Americans for Carbon 
Dividends,” a national education and advocacy campaign to promote 
the policy goals of the Climate Leadership Council. The CLC calls for the 
adoption of a carbon fee with the revenues returned to citizens, coupled 
with regulatory simplification. We also joined the Oil and Gas Climate 
Initiative, an international CEO-led energy company effort dedicated to 
developing practical solutions to climate change in areas such as carbon 
capture and storage, methane emission reductions and energy and 
transportation efficiency. 
While the dual challenge is a critical issue for our company and industry, 
we are also actively focused on other key sustainability issues including:
• Advancing worker safety, where we’ve seen an almost 80 percent 
reduction in our lost-time incident rate since 2000;
• Reducing plastic waste, where we recently became a founding 
member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste;
• Advancing human rights by helping to train nearly 17,000 people on 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights; and
• Creating positive economic development in the communities where 
we operate.
 
On this last point, two examples of recent developments stand out. 
In Papua New Guinea, we’ve increased the percentage of Papua New 
Guineans in our workforce to 68 percent. In Guyana, the percentage of 
Guyanese in our local workforce has reached 54 percent, and is expected 
to increase as oil production begins. Also in Guyana, we’ve established a 
Centre for Local Business Development to help local businesses enhance 
their skills, improve competitiveness and participate in the development 
of the country’s new resource. More than 1,500 Guyanese companies 
are registered with the center . ExxonMobil and its contractors spent 
nearly $60 million with almost 500 Guyanese vendors in 2018.   
This year’s Sustainability Report contains many more examples of how 
ExxonMobil is making a positive contribution to society, and I hope you 
find this report helpful in understanding our approach. 
I appreciate your interest and engagement in these shared priorities,  
and welcome your feedback.
Sincerely,
Darren W. Woods
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerCHAIRMAN’S LETTER
Darren W. Woods, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Sustainability
SocialEnvironment
GovernanceManaging the risks
of climate changeEnvironmentalperformanceCorporate
governance
engagement andCommunity
human rightsdevelopment andLocalsupply chain managementand the workplace
Safety, health
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 4EXXONMOBIL AND SUSTAINABILITY
ExxonMobil is committed to producing the energy and chemical products that are essential to modern life, economic development and improved standards of living. 
In doing this, we are also committed to protecting our people, the environment and the well-being of communities where we operate. This 2018 Sustainability Report 
Highlights provides a summary of key dimensions of sustainability, including our environmental, social and governance performance. For additional information, please  
visit our website.3.8M
OIL-EQUIVALENT 
BARRELS OF NET 
OIL AND GAS 
PRODUCTION 
PER DAY†PRODUCTION
Oil
Natural Gas
Natural
Gas LiquidsUPSTREAM: We are one of the largest producers of oil and 
gas, and have an active presence in 41 countries where we 
explore, develop, produce and/or market hydrocarbons.
5.5M
BARRELS OF 
PETROLEUM 
PRODUCT SALES 
PER DAY‡REFINING + SUPPLY
Gasoline
Diesel 
Fuel Oil
Jet Fuel
Lubricants
Asphalt
Chemical FeedstocksDOWNSTREAM: We are one of the largest integrated 
refiners and manufacturers of fuels and lubricants, as well 
as a leading marketer of petroleum products and finished 
lubricants. We have refining and lubricant blending facilities 
in 25 countries.
26.9M
TONNES OF 
CHEMICAL PRIME 
PRODUCT SALES‡CHEMICAL
Basic Chemicals
Intermediates
Synthetics
Plastics & Resins
Specialty
Elastomers & ButylCHEMICAL: ExxonMobil is one of the world’s largest 
chemical companies. We have operations in 16 countries 
and a unique portfolio of high-performance products.
CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS
FEEDSTOCKS 
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  ExxonMobil maintains a diverse portfolio of resources, projects and assets across our businesses. For information on our financial performance and investment decisions, visit our Digital Annual Report.2018 GLOBAL OPERATIONS
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 5FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 6COMMUNITIES
CUSTOMERS
EMPLOYEES
GOVERNMENTS
NONGOVERNMENTAL 
ORGANIZATIONS
SHAREHOLDERS 
SUPPLIERSSTAKEHOLDER GROUPS COMMON AREAS OF INTERESTOur goal is to foster mutual understanding, trust and cooperation with stakeholder groups on sustainability topics. We interact with a variety of stakeholders via community meetings, digital and social 
media, corporate publications and one-on-one discussions. Maintaining an open dialogue provides opportunities to listen to concerns, discuss approaches and share plans. Across stakeholder groups, 
from communities and nongovernmental organizations to employees and shareholders, we continue to see broad interest in our environmental, social and governance performance. The table below 
highlights our key stakeholder groups, their typical areas of interest and ExxonMobil’s engagement approach.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Communicate with local residents in areas where we operate through direct correspondence and group meetings 
Dedicate personnel responsible for community engagement as well as receiving, tracking, analyzing and responding to  
    potential community concerns
Establish channels for communities to provide input or seek information
Use social media platforms to share project updates with a diverse audience
Contributed $211 million to communities around the world in 2018Air emissions
Community investments
Economic development
Education
Employment opportunitiesEnvironmental performance
Grievance management
Human rights
Operational impacts
Collaborate across industries to identify customer solutions to sustainability issues 
Cultivate an open dialogue with our customers and provide education on the market-based approach to sustainable solutions
Provide customer service numbers and support marketing teams in responding to customer questionsDeveloping innovative  
products and technology
SafetySupply chain management
Sustainability and  
environmental issues
Support the professional development of our more than 71,000 employees globally 
Invest in worker health by providing voluntary health programs
Share feedback and raise topics of interest through managers, internal surveys, company forums and a confidential hotline
Support employee-led resource groups that foster a culture of diversity and inclusion
Use social media platforms to share informationBenefits
Diversity and inclusion
Health and wellnessProfessional development 
Safety
Workplace security
Engage host governments to maintain the safety and security of operations while respecting human rights
Monitor and participate in transparency initiatives in countries where we operate
Meet with representatives and leaders to provide information and insights on policies that may affect our business
Work to support responsible economic, energy and environmental policies and help identify solutions Energy supply and security
Environmental performance
Climate change
Employment opportunities
Ethics and integrity 
Impact assessments
Local supplier developmentSafety 
Taxes and other revenue sources
Human rights
Health and wellness
Diversity and inclusion 
Education
Collaborate on technical projects of mutual interest
Conduct one-on-one meetings 
Engage in corporate and foundation philanthropic activities with nongovernmental organizations
Participate in conference events to exchange views, information and expertise
Participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives to enable progress on key policy issues
Partner with grantees to improve health, education and job opportunities in local communitiesClimate change
Environmental performance
Human rights
Social issuesTransparency
Economic development
Health
Education
Engage directly with shareholders to understand input and feedback, including shareholder proposals
Disseminate information to our shareholders through SEC filings, investor days, investor presentations and other publications
Enable engagement between non-employee directors and shareholders, and facilitate communication from any interested  
    party to non-employee directors via our corporate governance page 
Host annual shareholder meetings to share information on company highlights and answer questions from shareholdersBoard composition
Business performance
Climate change
Environmental performanceGovernance practices
Policy engagement
Risk management
Hold forums with suppliers to provide information on our safety, environmental and human rights practices 
Participate in organizations dedicated to building local supplier capabilities
Share our supplier , vendor and contractor expectations
Conduct regular supplier audits and anti-corruption due diligence in relevant countries
Support U.S. businesses owned by traditionally underrepresented groups through ExxonMobil’s U.S. supplier diversity database and supplier forumsLocal business opportunities 
Local supplier development
Operational integrity
Safety
Environmental performanceExpectations for suppliers
Diversity and inclusion
Education 
Human rightsENGAGEMENT APPROACHFOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 7These range from participation in industry-wide platforms such 
as the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative to alliances with public and 
private research and innovation organizations. In particular , 
investments in emerging technologies such as quantum 
computing and research to bring biofuels and carbon capture 
to commercial scale could provide significant opportunities for 
investors, society, and the company itself. 
However , assessing whether the level of such R&D investments 
in lower-carbon technologies is at an adequate scale, given 
the magnitude of the societal risk and the size of the company, 
requires additional context and data in ExxonMobil’s disclosures. 
We believe a discussion of the overall industry context 
and challenges associated with ExxonMobil’s operations, 
exploration, research and development, and long-term 
planning would facilitate better understanding of the scale 
and pace of the company’s climate change response as well 
as other sustainability activities. To that end, we believe that 
ExxonMobil’s discussion of each sustainability topic in its future 
reports should provide:
• Business Context: How does the company’s performance on 
the topic contribute to its long-term strategy?
• Societal Context: How much of a difference can the 
company make on key societal issues? Are the company’s 
sustainability actions and investments commensurate with 
their potential impact, both to the business and to society? 
Are there opportunities to identify areas of improvement and 
enhance the effectiveness of the company’s programs and 
partnerships?
 
For example, further understanding ExxonMobil’s strategy for 
engagement with communities where it operates would provide 
both societal and performance context; how does ExxonMobil 
ensure adequate community representation in regions where 
specific groups are commonly underrepresented? For complex 
or high-profile engagements involving multiple stakeholder 
groups, providing more insight into the decision-making 
process would demonstrate ExxonMobil’s commitments to local 
communities in practice. The company also has an opportunity 
to provide additional data and examples on how its activities 
are contributing to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals in 
the countries where it operates through its investments in local 
communities, institutions, and infrastructure. Increased transparency and commitment will be essential 
to ExxonMobil’s ongoing sustainability progress. We believe 
ExxonMobil has an opportunity to further develop quantifiable 
goals that reflect current economic realities about energy 
demand, but also demonstrate the company’s R&D, operational, 
and public policy commitments to address the enormous global 
climate challenge. The goals may not be simple and may change 
over time. We believe ExxonMobil made progress in 2018 and 
is positioned to play a leadership role in setting bolder goals and 
engaging the broader public through more transparency and 
dialogue about the most pressing challenges we all face.
Sincerely,Introduction
ExxonMobil’s External Sustainability Advisory Panel (ESAP) 
publishes an annual independent review of the company’s 
Sustainability Report. The ESAP is composed of academics, 
nongovernmental organization representatives and former 
government officials with expertise in environmental, social  
and governance issues. 
ESAP statement
This statement represents our views on the progress and quality 
of ExxonMobil’s sustainability reporting and transparency. 
In recognition of our time and efforts, ExxonMobil provided 
a donation on behalf of panelists to nonprofit organizations 
of our choice and reimbursed relevant travel expenses. This 
ESAP statement is not an official endorsement of ExxonMobil’s 
Sustainability Report, the corporation, or its policies  
and strategies.
During our review of this year’s report, the panel identified a 
number of common themes and provided a summary of our 
general feedback as well as specific feedback on ExxonMobil’s 
climate reporting. ExxonMobil’s Sustainability Report and 
Energy & Carbon Summary (ECS) together offer a window into 
the complexities involved in managing climate change issues for 
a global oil and gas company. The ECS provides a robust analysis 
of global progress toward a 2°C scenario, and its conclusions 
about the pace of progress to date are generally consistent 
with the concerns outlined in the 2018 Special Report from the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
We were pleased to see that ExxonMobil provided additional 
information on some of its new partnerships to expand the 
company’s investments in long-term greenhouse gas emissions 
reduction efforts and increase collaboration to pursue  
lower-emission technologies.  ExxonMobil’s External Sustainability Advisory Panel 
independently reviews our sustainability activities, including this 
report. We formed the panel in 2009 to understand additional 
external perspectives related to environmental, social and 
governance topics.
Craig H. Benson
Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science
University of Virginia
Mark A. Cohen
Professor of Management and Law
Vanderbilt University  
Owen Graduate School of Management
Frank Loy
Former Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs
U.S. Department of StateJane Nelson
Director of Corporate Responsibility 
Initiative
Harvard University Kennedy School of 
Government
Salil Tripathi
Senior Adviser , Global Issues
Institute for Human Rights and Business
August 2019
For past panel feedback statements, visit: exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreportEXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY PANEL STATEMENT
The External Sustainability Advisory Panel met with employees at ExxonMobil’s 
Research and Engineering Technology Center in Clinton, New Jersey, in 2018. 
From left: Mark Cohen; Craig Benson; Vijay Swarup, vice president of research and 
development at ExxonMobil’s Research and Engineering Company; Kelsey McNeely, 
biofuels program leader at ExxonMobil; Jane Nelson; Frank Loy; and Salil Tripathi.Tanya Hintz, Cold Lake environmental and regulatory lead, collects native plant seeds from Imperial’s 
Cold Lake operation site in Canada for reclamation and restoration projects. ENVIRONMENT
ExxonMobil’s diverse portfolio of projects requires us to work in remote and 
sensitive environments including deepwater and biodiverse locations. Our 
environmental management approach is guided by an understanding of  
the potential environmental impacts of our operations and a commitment  
to sustainably develop, maintain and operate projects using appropriate 
standards that enable us to ‘Protect Tomorrow. Today.’In support of upstream , downstream and chemical 
cogeneration facilities since 2000 to more efficiently produce 
electricity and reduce greenhouse gas emissionsInvested since 2000  in our refining and chemical 
facilities and enabling research  around the world to 
reduce greenhous e gas emissionsInvested since 2000  at our Upstream  facilities around 
the world on emission reduction efforts, including 
energy efficiency and flare mitigation~$4B
~$3B
~$3B~$10B
Invested to research, develop
and deploy lower-emission energy
solutions since 2000 2018 emissions reduction
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 9ExxonMobil works to meet the world’s growing demand 
for energy while reducing environmental impacts and 
the risks of climate change. To mitigate greenhouse gas 
emissions from our operations, ExxonMobil focuses on 
increasing energy efficiency and reducing flaring, venting 
and other emissions. We deploy proven technologies, such 
as cogeneration and carbon capture and storage, and we 
conduct and support research to develop breakthrough, 
lower-emission technologies.
Since 2000, ExxonMobil has invested nearly $10 billion in 
projects to research, develop and deploy lower-emission 
energy solutions. ExxonMobil also continues to expand 
collaborative efforts with other companies and academic 
institutions focused on these areas.
Recent additions include a commitment to spend up 
to $100 million over 10 years on research with the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory and National Energy Technology Laboratory 
to bring lower-emission technologies to commercial scale. Others involve agreements with companies, such as Global 
Thermostat, which is working on technology that pulls 
CO2 molecules directly from the air , and Mosaic Materials, 
which is using porous solids, known as metal-organic 
frameworks, to separate CO2 from air or flue gas. We also 
work with more than 80 universities around the world to 
explore next-generation energy technologies. For more 
information, please see the Developing Innovative Products 
and Technology section of this report.
While we continue to make progress in finding ways to 
mitigate greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, 
emissions may increase or decrease over time as a result of 
the changing nature of our business. For example, in 2018 
ExxonMobil’s net equity greenhouse gas emissions totaled 
124 million CO2-equivalent metric tons, which was a slight 
increase over the previous year , 2017, but lower than 2016 
emissions. The slight increase was due to growth in our 
operations. In 2018, greenhouse gas emissions avoided 
from ExxonMobil actions equaled 21.5 million metric tons. 
Over the past 10 years, we have avoided 162 million metric 
tons of greenhouse gas emissions.MANAGING CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS 
A Synthetic Genomics Inc. researcher tests algae samples. Algae has the potential to become a biofuel 
of the future. Advanced biofuels represent one of many potential breakthrough technologies in which 
ExxonMobil is investing to seek ways to reduce emissions.2018  top global corporate wind and solar buyers*
Facebook
AT&T
Walmar t
Norsk Hy dro
Micr osoft
Alcoa Corp
ExxonMobil
Apple
Google
EVRAZ Solar WindMegawatts
*The data were downloaded from BloombergNEF on December 13, 2018, and 
are based on total wind and solar power purchase agreements signed in 2018.964
820
533 138
667
563
524
250
184
102 191
240112250819
2018  top global corporate wind and solar buyers*
Facebook
AT&T
Walmar t
Norsk Hy dro
Micr osoft
Alcoa Corp
ExxonMobil
Apple
Google
EVRAZ Solar WindMegawatts
*The data were downloaded from BloombergNEF on December 13, 2018, and 
are based on total wind and solar power purchase agreements signed in 2018.964
820
533 138
667
563
524
250
184
102 191
2401122508192018  top global corporate wind and solar buyers*
Facebook
AT&T
Walmar t
Norsk Hy dro
Micr osoft
Alcoa Corp
ExxonMobil
Apple
Google
EVRAZ Solar WindMegawatts
*The data were downloaded from BloombergNEF on December 13, 2018, and 
are based on total wind and solar power purchase agreements signed in 2018.964
820
533 138
667
563
524
250
184
102 191
2401122508192018 top global corporate wind and solar buyers*
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 10We report greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis, 
demonstrating a share of emissions from any facility or 
operation in which ExxonMobil holds a financial interest, 
with the share reflecting the equity interest.
ExxonMobil seeks to improve energy efficiency and 
mitigate emissions in a variety of ways. We also evaluate 
opportunities to purchase renewable energy for our 
operations. In 2018, for example, we signed 12-year 
agreements with Lincoln Clean Energy, under which 
ExxonMobil will purchase 500 megawatts of electricity 
generated by wind and solar to power our operations in 
Texas. Purchasing this renewable power is expected to 
avoid an estimated 800,000 metric tons of CO2 per year  
and put ExxonMobil in the top 10 global corporate wind 
and solar buyers in 2018.Energy efficiency 
Using energy more efficiently is a powerful tool to reduce 
emissions and costs. ExxonMobil works to improve efficiency 
across all its operations. The electricity used in ExxonMobil’s 
operations in 2018 represents more than 10 percent of our net 
equity greenhouse gas emissions. According to the Solomon 
Refining Industry Survey, ExxonMobil is among the world’s 
most energy-efficient refining companies.
Cogeneration is a process that improves efficiency by 
simultaneously producing electricity while capturing useful 
heat or steam for industrial processes. We have interests in 
approximately 5,400 megawatts of cogeneration capacity in 
more than 100 installations around the world. This capacity is 
equivalent to the annual energy needed to power 4.3 million 
U.S. homes.
We are also working to reduce flaring, venting and fugitive 
emissions in our operations. Since 2000, we eliminated or 
captured and stored 400 million metric tons of CO2, equivalent 
to the energy-related CO2 emissions of about 55 million U.S. 
homes over the same period, using a variety of technologies. 
Yvette Longonje, project manager, at ExxonMobil’s cogeneration facility in Beaumont, Texas.Methane emissions 
ExxonMobil is taking a leadership role in methane emission 
reduction efforts. In 2018, we announced our intention to 
reduce corporate-wide methane emissions by 15 percent 
by 2020, compared with 2016. As of August 2019, methane 
emissions from our U.S. unconventional production and 
midstream operations were down by nearly 20 percent, 
compared to 2016, and we are on track to meet our  
company-wide methane reduction commitments by 2020. 
To achieve this progress, we implemented cost-effective 
methods that included structured leak detection and repair 
programs, which use optical natural gas imaging cameras to 
identify leaks for prompt repair , and replacement of high-bleed, 
pneumatic devices with lower-emission technology. Since 
2017, ExxonMobil has replaced more than 80 percent of the 
approximately 1,250 high-bleed pneumatic devices across our 
U.S. unconventional operations. 
In 2018, methane emissions from our global operations  
totaled 7 million CO2-equivalent metric tons, which on a 
company-wide basis was the same as the previous year .  FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 11Spotlight
Imperial plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity at oil sands facilities
ExxonMobil’s Canadian affiliate, Imperial, plans to apply advanced 
technologies and improvements in efficiency to reduce the 
greenhouse gas emissions intensity of its operated oil sands 
facilities. 
Imperial’s goal is to achieve a 10 percent decrease in greenhouse 
gas emissions intensity by 2023, using 2016 as a baseline.* The 
application of next-generation oil recovery technology at its Cold 
Lake operation and improvements in reliability at its Kearl site are 
two of the key drivers behind the planned reductions. 
Imperial is also evaluating the first commercial application of a 
breakthrough cyclic solvent process for producing oil from an oil 
sands deposit at its Cold Lake site. The process could help eliminate 
the use of steam and reduce emissions intensity by up to 90 percent 
in certain areas of the field, compared to existing technology.In 2018, our methane 
emissions totaled  
7 million CO2-equivalent 
metric tons and we 
are on track to reduce 
methane emissions by 
15% by 2020, compared 
with 2016.REDUCING  
METHANE  
EMISSIONS
In 2018, greenhouse gas 
emissions avoided as a 
result of actions taken by 
ExxonMobil equaled  
21.5 million metric tons. 
Over the past 10 years, we 
have avoided 162 million 
metric tons of greenhouse  
gas emissions.21.5M  
METRIC TONS 
AVOIDED
Since 2000, we have 
eliminated or captured and 
stored 400 million metric tons 
of CO2, which is equivalent 
to the energy-related CO2 
emissions associated with 
about 55 million U.S. homes.ELIMINATED 
OR CAPTURED 
AND STORED 
400M  
METRIC TONS 
SINCE 2000 We have interests in 
approximately 5,400 
megawatts of cogeneration 
capacity in more than  
100 installations around the 
world, which helps generate 
power more efficiently and 
leads to reduced greenhouse 
gas emissions.5,400 
MEGAWATTS
COGENERATION  
CAPACITYAlthough reductions were achieved in U.S. unconventional 
production and midstream operations, increases were seen in 
other areas due to production growth. Overall, the company 
remains on track to meet its 15 percent methane reduction 
commitment by 2020.
We support the Methane Guiding Principles for reducing 
methane emissions across the natural gas value chain, which we 
signed in 2017. The guiding principles are being implemented 
in collaboration with many stakeholders, including the 
Environmental Defense Fund, the International Energy Agency, 
the International Gas Union, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative 
Climate Investment Fund, the Rocky Mountain Institute, the 
Sustainable Gas Institute, the Energy and Resources Institute, 
and United Nations Environment. The principles provide a 
framework for reducing methane emissions, improving accuracy 
of methane emissions data and advocating for sound policies 
and regulations on methane emissions.
We have advocated in the United States for a cost-effective, 
federal regulatory standard to manage methane emissions 
for both new and existing oil and natural gas facilities. We 
will continue to work constructively with state and federal 
regulators, industry and nongovernmental organizations to 
develop and implement effective methane-emission regulations.
Flaring
Flaring from our combined upstream, downstream and chemical 
operations totaled 4.0 million metric tons in 2018, representing 
an increase of 200,000 metric tons compared with 2017. The 
increase in 2018 was primarily due to the start-up of growth 
projects in our upstream business. 2018 flaring was down 
more than 1 million metric tons, or 19 percent, from 2016. 
We continue to focus our efforts to reduce flaring associated 
with oil and natural gas production and processing across 
ExxonMobil operations to meet our target of a 25 percent 
reduction by 2020, compared with 2016.
Imperial’s Cold Lake operation in Canada.
* Governmental, legal or regulatory changes could directly or indirectly delay or 
otherwise impact greenhouse gas emissions intensity-reduction measures.2018 performance highlightsFOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 12We are conducting scientific research to develop the 
next generation of energy technologies and products. 
Our work includes advanced biofuels, carbon capture 
and storage, natural gas technologies and new energy 
efficiency processes. In addition to our in-house capabilities, 
we collaborate with leading research and technology 
companies, national laboratories and universities, 
and others involved in breakthrough energy research. 
ExxonMobil’s Emerging Technologies program brings 
together executives, scientists and engineers from across 
our businesses to identify and evaluate long-term, strategic 
research opportunities. 
ExxonMobil invests about $1 billion annually in research 
and development across our businesses, an ongoing 
commitment to fundamental science and innovation. 
ExxonMobil employs more than 20,000 scientists and 
engineers, including more than 2,200 with Ph.D.s. We 
collaborate with approximately 80 universities around the 
world to explore new energy technologies. In particular , 
we collaborate with broad-based energy centers at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton University, 
Stanford University, the University of Texas and in Singapore 
at the Nanyang Technological University and National 
University of Singapore.
We are also working with the U.S. Department of Energy’s 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory and National 
Energy Technology Laboratory to bring lower-emission 
technologies to commercial scale. We have agreements 
with technology companies such as Global Thermostat and 
Mosaic Materials on advanced carbon capture technologies, 
and with IBM, where we agreed to jointly research the use 
of quantum computing to develop next-generation energy 
and manufacturing technologies.Natural gas 
Natural gas is a versatile, abundant and lower-emission 
fuel. The use of natural gas in power generation plays 
an important role in reducing global emissions. When 
considering lifecycle emissions, natural gas emits up to  
60 percent lower greenhouse gas emissions and produces 
significantly fewer air pollutants than coal for power 
generation. Natural gas also provides a reliable source 
of power to supplement renewable energy when wind 
or solar power is not available. ExxonMobil is one of the 
largest natural gas producers in the world and a leader 
in liquefied natural gas technology. Liquefied natural gas 
enables us to transport natural gas from supply centers to 
customers safely and cost effectively. We are working to 
expand access to liquefied natural gas around the world. 
Information on methane management associated with 
our natural gas production can be found in the Managing 
Climate Change Risks section of this report and on  
 our website.
Advanced fuels and lubricants 
ExxonMobil’s family of high-performance and synthetic 
lubricants delivers improved vehicle efficiency and helps 
our customers reduce their emissions. Our synthetic 
lubricants require less frequent replacement than 
conventional motor oils.  DEVELOPING INNOVATIVE
PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY
Daniel Vertucci, senior engineer, tests high-performance lubricant products for motor vehicles at
ExxonMobil’s testing grounds in Nevada.FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 13ExxonMobil invests an 
estimated $1 billion a 
year in research and 
development across 
our businesses.$1B
INVESTED 
ANNUALLY
ExxonMobil employs 
more than 20,000 
scientists and engineers, 
including more than 
2,200 Ph.D.s.20K 
SCIENTISTS 
AND 
ENGINEERS
ExxonMobil is working  
on the technological 
capability needed  
to produce 10,000 barrels  
of algae biofuel per day  
by 2025. TARGETING
10K
BARRELS PER 
DAY OF ALGAE 
BIOFUEL
We maintain a working 
interest in more than  
one-fifth of the world’s total 
carbon capture capacity. 1/5
OF WORLD’S 
CARBON 
CAPTURE 
CAPACITYFor example, our Mobil 1™ Advanced Fuel Economy synthetic 
motor oil can improve fuel economy compared to other motor 
oils. Premium fuels such as Synergy™ gasoline and diesel 
can also help consumers improve gas mileage. ExxonMobil 
is progressing several multi-billion-dollar refinery expansion 
projects. For example, at our facility in Singapore, we are 
working to produce higher-value products and increase 
production of lubricant base stocks to meet growing 
demand. Once complete, the project will also produce 
cleaner marine fuels that will comply with the International 
Maritime Organization’s 0.50 percent sulfur cap. Engineering, 
procurement and construction activities have begun, and 
startup is anticipated in 2023.
Chemical materials 
ExxonMobil’s chemical business develops materials that are 
used to provide a wide range of benefits in many consumer 
applications. For example, automotive manufacturers use 
ExxonMobil’s advanced, lightweight plastics to reduce vehicle 
weight and deliver greater fuel efficiency. For every  
10 percent decrease in vehicle weight, fuel economy improves 
by an estimated 7 percent. Products made from our resins 
also help extend the shelf life of fresh food by days or even 
weeks, thereby improving food safety and reducing waste. 
Visit ExxonMobil’s Energy & Carbon Summary and the Waste 
Management section of this report for more information.
Advanced biofuels 
ExxonMobil funds a broad portfolio of advanced biofuels 
research programs. For example, ExxonMobil recently signed 
a joint research agreement with Clariant to evaluate the use of 
cellulosic sugars from sources such as agricultural waste and 
residues to produce biofuel. This partnership expands on an 
existing joint research agreement between ExxonMobil and 
Renewable Energy Group, Inc. (REG), in which the companies 
successfully validated the ability of REG technology to convert 
sugars from cellulosic biomass into biodiesel through a  
single-step process. The agreement with Clariant enables 
ExxonMobil and REG to advance a key stage in the overall 
cellulosic conversion process, which could potentially lead to the 
development of scalable biodiesel technology.ExxonMobil also has an extensive research program related 
to algae-based biofuels. Algae biofuels have the potential to 
supplement petroleum-based fuels with minimal modifications 
to current transportation infrastructure. They also have the 
potential to yield more energy per area of land than other 
biofuels and can be grown on land considered unsuitable 
for agriculture. In addition, algae can be grown using only 
saltwater , unlike traditional ethanol, which requires large 
volumes of freshwater . ExxonMobil is targeting the technical 
capability to produce 10,000 barrels of algae biofuels per day 
by 2025. 
Carbon capture and storage 
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) is the process of capturing 
and injecting CO2 into underground geological formations for 
permanent storage. This process helps reduce the amount of 
CO2 released into the atmosphere. Since 1970, ExxonMobil 
has cumulatively captured more CO2 than any other company, 
accounting for more than 40 percent of cumulative CO2 
captured.* We maintain a working interest in more than  
one-fifth of the world’s total carbon capture capacity. In 2018, we captured approximately 7 million metric tons of 
CO2 for storage. While already a leader in CCS, we are working 
toward expanding our capacity and are evaluating multiple 
opportunities that have the potential to be commercially  
viable through the convergence of advantaged technologies 
and a supportive policy environment. Visit ExxonMobil’s  
Energy & Carbon Summary for more information on 
ExxonMobil’s efforts on CCS.
Please visit our website for information on spill performance, 
managing impacts to air and water , and operating in sensitive 
environments.2018 performance highlights
* Source: Global CCS Institute. Data updated as of April 2018 and based on cumulative anthropogenic 
carbon dioxide capture volume. Anthropogenic CO2, for the purposes of this calculation, means CO2 
that without carbon capture and storage would have been emitted to the atmosphere, including, but 
not limited to: reservoir CO2 from gas fields, CO2 emitted during production and CO2 emitted during 
combustion. It does not include natural CO2 produced solely for enhanced oil recovery.FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 14Reducing plastic waste within our operations
ExxonMobil recognizes the public’s concern regarding 
plastic waste and prioritizes eliminating unnecessary waste 
from our operations to increase efficiency and minimize 
potential impacts to the environment. As a large energy 
company with a chemical business, we recognize the 
importance of responsibly managing plastic pellet loss 
within our operations.
Although laws and regulations related to reporting of plastic 
pellet loss to the environment vary by jurisdiction, we are 
working to implement a common global reporting standard 
across our operations, which we plan to have in place in 
2020. In 2018, ExxonMobil had no reportable plastic pellet 
losses. Our aim is to have zero pellet loss to  
the environment. 
Plant personnel monitor our facilities via routine daily 
rounds. When a loss of containment is discovered, loose 
pellets are promptly contained and cleaned up. Pellet 
recovery equipment, such as skimmers and sieves, is also in 
place to recover pellets captured in our drainage systems. 
ExxonMobil also actively participates in industry initiatives 
related to pellet loss. For example, since 2008, we have 
been a member of Operation Clean Sweep (OCS), a 
product stewardship program of the American Chemistry 
Council and the Plastics Industry Association. OCS helps 
drive implementation of best practices, including working 
toward achieving zero pellet loss to the environment across 
the industry. ExxonMobil has incorporated OCS principles 
into our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS), 
which is applied at our plastics production facilities around 
the world.  OIMS requires a regular assessment of our procedures 
to ensure they are effective, and the implementation of 
improvement measures if needed.
ExxonMobil’s chemical business also encourages  
third-party logistics suppliers delivering resins from our 
facilities to implement similar processes to prevent pellet 
loss, for example by incorporating OCS principles into our 
Supplier Relationship Management process. 
ExxonMobil was a founding member of the Chemical 
Industry Responsible Care program, which we implement 
through OIMS. Responsible Care focuses on helping 
chemical companies achieve and sustain operational 
excellence in the areas of safety, environment, product 
stewardship, security, community engagement and health 
management. In 2018, ExxonMobil Chemical Company was 
awarded a Responsible Care Exceptional Merit award in 
the Energy Efficiency category. In June 2019, ExxonMobil 
received the Responsible Care Company of the Year award, 
which included performance achievements during 2018.
Helping customers reduce their plastic waste 
Over the next few decades, population and income growth 
are expected to create more demand for plastics, which help 
support safety, convenience and improved living standards. 
Plastic packaging can make food more convenient to 
transport, help reduce spoilage and improve food safety for 
consumers. ExxonMobil recognizes post-consumer plastic 
waste is an environmental challenge in parts of the world 
due to lack of effective waste collection and management. 
Society’s solutions to this challenge will require collective 
support, innovation and collaboration on a global basis.WASTE MANAGEMENT
Nurfzailah Binte Razali, laboratory technician, inspects plastic pellets at ExxonMobil’s olefins 
plant in Singapore.FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 15Spotlight
Achieving validation for waste reduction 
initiatives at our lubricant plantsExxonMobil is the first petroleum products company to achieve 
a Zero Waste to Landfill Silver designation from Underwriters 
Laboratories (UL), a company that tests, inspects, audits and 
certifies safety and environmental aspects of products and 
operations worldwide. UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill designation 
reflects increasing percentages of waste being diverted away from 
landfill. UL audited ExxonMobil’s global lubricant operations in 
2018 and verified waste diversion rates of more than 90 percent, 
representing more than 50,000 tons of waste kept out of landfill, 
through source reduction, reuse and recycling. ExxonMobil and  
UL plan to repeat audits in future years.
Our waste management program establishes innovative techniques 
and processes across 14 waste categories. For example, our Port 
Allen lubricant plant in Louisiana developed a process that ensures 
aerosol cans are safely drained to enable recycling of both the 
metal and remaining liquid. At multiple plants, we took steps to 
minimize generation of waste lubricants and worked with suppliers 
to extend the useful life of pallets for product transportation. We are continuing to develop polymers that enable customers to 
use less plastic and make the plastic they use easier to recycle. For 
example, our new performance polyethylene resins enable our 
customers to meet their performance needs, often with more than 
20 percent thinner , lighter-weight products, thus reducing materials 
consumption and waste. Our Vistamaxx™ performance polymers 
help customers increase the amount of recycled content in plastics 
without degrading performance. We are also assessing technology 
options to economically convert plastic waste to petrochemical 
feedstock by leveraging reliable, large-scale chemical processes.
In 2018, ExxonMobil became the first energy company to join  
The Recycling Partnership , a nonprofit organization dedicated to 
increasing recycling in the United States. The Recycling Partnership 
uses corporate investments to improve recycling practices across 
the country. We have committed $1.5 million to help develop 
sustainable solutions and support activities such as curbside 
recycling programs. The partnership has supported more than  
1,000 communities, including 50 million homes, and has diverted 
180 million pounds of recyclable waste away from landfills to 
recycling centers. 
In 2018, ExxonMobil also became a member of Materials 
Recovery for the Future, a nonprofit research program focused on 
identification and demonstration of single-stream curbside recycling 
solutions for flexible plastic packaging materials. The primary 
objective of the program is to demonstrate the technical and 
economic feasibility of recycling household flexible plastic packaging 
through community municipal recycling. Plans include recycling of 
polyethylene and other flexible films, wraps, bags and pouches.
In January 2019, ExxonMobil became a founding member of the 
Alliance to End Plastic Waste, an organization consisting of more 
than 40 companies from across the plastics and consumer goods 
value chain that is committed to advancing potential scalable 
solutions to reduce plastic waste in the environment. Members  
of the alliance have already collectively committed more than  
$1 billion to fund those activities.
Solutions to address the challenge of post-consumer plastic waste 
will require collective support, innovation and collaboration on a 
global basis – from resin producers, waste management companies, 
consumer brands and retailers to nongovernmental organizations, 
governments and consumers. ExxonMobil is committed to working 
with members of the alliance and other key stakeholders to help 
address the challenge.ExxonMobil is a founding 
member of the Alliance 
to End Plastic Waste, 
an organization that is 
committed to advancing 
potential scalable 
solutions to reduce plastic 
waste in the environment. ALLIANCE TO 
END PLASTIC 
WASTE 
FOUNDING 
MEMBER
ExxonMobil’s lubricant 
operations achieved 
Zero Waste to Landfill 
Silver Validation 
from Underwriters 
Laboratories, diverting 
more than 50,000 tons  
of waste from our  
global facilities.DIVERTED
50K 
TONS OF
WASTE
ExxonMobil is working  
to implement a common 
global reporting standard 
across our operations.NO 
REPORTABLE 
PLASTIC
PELLET LOSSES 
TO THE
ENVIRONMENT 
IN 2018ExxonMobil became the 
first energy company 
to join The Recycling 
Partnership, a nonprofit 
organization dedicated to 
increasing recycling in the 
United States.1ST ENERGY 
COMPANY 
TO JOIN THE 
RECYCLING 
PARTNERSHIP
Nina Bass, coordination supervisor, at the Port Allen terminal in Louisiana.2018 performance highlightsMembers of the community near ExxonMobil’s Hides gas conditioning  
 plant in Papua New Guinea.SOCIAL
Around the world, ExxonMobil aims to be a preferred business partner, neighbor, employer 
and supplier. ExxonMobil maintains a corporate-wide commitment to safeguarding the 
health and security of our employees and the public, responsibly managing our social 
impacts and upholding respect for human rights in our operations.Lost-time incident rate*
Incidents per 200,000 work hours
0.000.050.100.150.20
American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark
ExxonMobil workforce
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
CHART
OWNERNAMECHARTCarol Zuber-Mallison • ZM Graphics, Inc.
studio/cell: 214-906-4162 • fax: 817-924-7783
carol@zmgraphics.com
Usage: Exclusive rights within ExxonMobil
ATTENTION: OWNERData list is used to drive the black and 
white chart, which is then used as a 
template for the color chart. Bars and lines 
are cut and pasted from the black and 
white template and are highly accurate. 
However , the color chart is NOT linked to 
the database and is NOT “driven” by the 
data; it is a piece of artwork buiilt by a 
human. Therefore, the editor needs to 
thoroughly proof the final artwork, not 
JUST the data list.VERSIONAS OF
APPROVED BYMay 07, 2019FILE INFO01 18XOMSUS-
LostTimeIR.ai0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
02009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2014 2016 2017 2018ExxonMobil workforce
BOOKLaura Fidelman • AvreaFoster
office: 214-313-9747
mobile: 281-733-5129
laura.fidelman@avreafoster .comYear ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. 
  petroleum industry workforce benchmark
"2009" 0.041 0.12
"2010" 0.038 0.13
"2011" 0.077 0.12
"2012" 0.047 0.11
"2013" 0.044 0.12
"2014" 0.031 0.11
"2015" 0.035 0.09
"2016" 0.029 0.08
"2017" 0.029 0.08
"2018" 0.034 0.08DATA AS OF 11/20/2019*Incidents include injuries and illnesses. We base our safety data on information available 
at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors. Depending 
on the reporting year , around 2 to 13 percent of the incidents are illness-related.ExxonMobil’s 2018 total workforce (employees and contractors) lost-time incident rate
per 200,000 work hours was 0.034, an increase of 14 percent from 2017. In 2018, our 
employee total lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.037 and our 
contractor lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.031. When compared
with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, 
ExxonMobil continues to be among the industry leaders in safety performance.American Petroleum
Institute U.S. petroleum 
industry workforce 
benchmarkLost-time incident rate*
Incidents per 200,000 work hours
0.000.050.100.150.20
American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark
ExxonMobil workforce
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
CHART
OWNERNAMECHARTCarol Zuber-Mallison • ZM Graphics, Inc.
studio/cell: 214-906-4162 • fax: 817-924-7783
carol@zmgraphics.com
Usage: Exclusive rights within ExxonMobil
ATTENTION: OWNERData list is used to drive the black and 
white chart, which is then used as a 
template for the color chart. Bars and lines 
are cut and pasted from the black and 
white template and are highly accurate. 
However , the color chart is NOT linked to 
the database and is NOT “driven” by the 
data; it is a piece of artwork buiilt by a 
human. Therefore, the editor needs to 
thoroughly proof the final artwork, not 
JUST the data list.VERSIONAS OF
APPROVED BYMay 07, 2019FILE INFO01 18XOMSUS-
LostTimeIR.ai0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
02009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2014 2016 2017 2018ExxonMobil workforce
BOOKLaura Fidelman • AvreaFoster
office: 214-313-9747
mobile: 281-733-5129
laura.fidelman@avreafoster .comYear ExxonMobil workforce American Petroleum Institute U.S. 
  petroleum industry workforce benchmark
"2009" 0.041 0.12
"2010" 0.038 0.13
"2011" 0.077 0.12
"2012" 0.047 0.11
"2013" 0.044 0.12
"2014" 0.031 0.11
"2015" 0.035 0.09
"2016" 0.029 0.08
"2017" 0.029 0.08
"2018" 0.034 0.08DATA AS OF 11/20/2019*Incidents include injuries and illnesses. We base our safety data on information available 
at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors. Depending 
on the reporting year , around 2 to 13 percent of the incidents are illness-related.ExxonMobil’s 2018 total workforce (employees and contractors) lost-time incident rate
per 200,000 work hours was 0.034, an increase of 14 percent from 2017. In 2018, our 
employee total lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.037 and our 
contractor lost-time incident rate per 200,000 work hours was 0.031. When compared
with the American Petroleum Institute U.S. petroleum industry workforce benchmark, 
ExxonMobil continues to be among the industry leaders in safety performance.American Petroleum
Institute U.S. petroleum 
industry workforce 
benchmark
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 17Safety is a core value at ExxonMobil. We operate in a 
manner that helps protect our employees, contractors, 
customers and the communities where we operate. Our 
approach to safety includes identifying possible risks, 
implementing measures to prevent potential incidents, 
and educating employees and contractors about 
unsafe behaviors. For 26 years, our Operations Integrity 
Management System (OIMS) has established a set of 
worldwide expectations for addressing risks inherent to 
our business, including safety risks. Our work procedures 
embed OIMS into our everyday work processes at all levels 
of the organization.
Personnel safety 
ExxonMobil maintains a strong safety culture with a clear 
objective: Nobody Gets Hurt. We promote a safety-first 
mentality for ExxonMobil employees and contractors to 
reach our goal of zero workplace injuries and illnesses. Our 
global workforce is empowered to intervene or stop work 
when they observe an at-risk situation or unsafe behavior . 
We have achieved a nearly 80 percent improvement in our 
workforce lost-time incident rate since the Exxon and Mobil 
merger in 2000. 
Thousands of contract workers support our operations 
every day. It is essential that third-party contractors follow 
our policies and meet our business objectives. Since 2000, 
we have held safety leadership forums with contractors 
working on our major projects. These promote a strong 
safety partnership with contract workers, improving our 
safety performance and supporting our goal for an  
injury-free workplace.Process safety  
ExxonMobil aims to prevent the uncontrolled release of 
hazardous substances to avoid potential significant health 
incidents, safety and environmental impacts and property 
damage. Through our process safety efforts, we employ 
rigorous design, construction and operating standards at 
our facilities. 
OIMS serves as the foundation for identifying process  
safety risks associated with our operations. We conduct 
inspection and maintenance programs to test critical 
equipment regularly and maintain compliance with 
applicable regulations. SAFETY
Lost-time incident rate*
ExxonMobil employees participate in helicopter escape training in Newfoundland, Canada.FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 18FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
Spotlight
Using technology to improve safety in ExxonMobil operations
In 2018, ExxonMobil piloted virtual reality (VR) training programs 
at our facilities in Baytown and Beaumont, Texas, which proved 
more effective than traditional training methods. We also recently 
announced the implementation of VR training modules at our new 
polypropylene production unit in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. We  
are also partnering with Baton Rouge Community College  
to support a VR training laboratory, where local students learn 
about industry-related scenarios, including process safety and 
emergency response.We use digital tools to support the safety of our workforce and 
improve safety practices in our operations. ExxonMobil is creating 
training modules that improve the efficiency and effectiveness of field 
training. The technology enables operators and engineers to engage 
in virtual “hands-on” training inside a simulated plant or facility that 
mimics what they experience on the job. Managers are able to simulate 
a variety of scenarios such as routine operations, emergency response, 
critical procedures and low-probability, high-consequence events in a 
safe and controlled environment. Since 2000, we achieved 
a nearly 80 percent 
improvement in our 
workforce lost-time 
incident rate. ExxonMobil donated  
$1 million to provide 
supplies and ongoing 
relief to Papua New 
Guinea following a 
major earthquake.For 26 years, our 
Operations Integrity 
Management System 
has established a set of 
worldwide expectations 
for addressing risks 
inherent to our business, 
including safety risks. ExxonMobil piloted 
virtual reality training 
programs at our 
facilities in Baytown and 
Beaumont, Texas.80%
IMPROVEMENT
IN LOST-TIME
INCIDENT RATE 
SINCE 2000$1M  
DONATION 
FOR DISASTER 
RELIEF IN 
PAPUA NEW 
GUINEA26 
YEARS 
OF OIMSVIRTUAL  
REALITY 
TRAININGWe also use technologies such as optical imaging cameras at 
many of our manufacturing facilities to monitor the integrity 
of our operations. When we identify risks, we implement 
appropriate preventive measures for equipment, processes  
and people. 
We collaborate with our peers and industry associations to share 
lessons learned. For example, ExxonMobil is actively engaged 
in the Advancing Process Safety initiative, a collaborative effort 
between the American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers 
and the American Petroleum Institute. The initiative aims to 
improve process safety performance across the industry by 
sharing experiences and knowledge about process safety events, 
hazard identification metrics and industry-proven practices.
Emergency preparedness 
ExxonMobil is prepared to respond to a wide array of emergency 
events, including natural disasters and operational incidents. 
Regardless of the size, severity or cause of an event, each 
ExxonMobil facility and business unit can access trained 
responders and resources. Cross-functional teams develop 
and practice emergency response tactics through emergency 
support groups and incident management teams we support 
around the world. For example, in 2018, the ExxonMobil 
Americas Regional Response Team conducted an emergency 
response exercise in the Houston area in coordination with the 
Texas General Land Office. The training exercise simulated a 
response to an offshore oil spill where the oil reached shore.
This preparation enables ExxonMobil’s global operations to 
provide a robust response in emergency situations to help 
protect the safety of people, the environment, our assets and 
our reputation. A recent example took place in Papua New 
Guinea where a magnitude 7.5 earthquake impacted the Hela 
Province, tragically resulting in loss of life and massive damage 
to roads, houses and infrastructure. Following the earthquake, 
ExxonMobil personnel immediately assisted communities 
affected by the disaster , and also donated $1 million to the 
Salvation Army in support of local agencies providing supplies 
and ongoing relief to impacted areas. ExxonMobil’s facilities in 
the area had been designed to withstand major earthquakes and 
were soon able to resume operations.2018 performance highlightsFOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 19Worksite health and wellness 
The success of ExxonMobil’s operations depends on a 
healthy and competent workforce. Our health policy 
communicates corporate expectations for identifying and 
managing health risks related to our operations. In each 
country, we develop workplace health programs that 
consider local health care systems and health needs.
Improvements in worker health increase quality of life and 
employee productivity. ExxonMobil supports voluntary 
health programs that promote employee well-being while 
reducing health-plan costs. Through our Culture of Health  
program, we enable the provision of services including 
health education, disease management assistance and 
fitness programs. The Culture of Health program is currently 
implemented in 22 countries, and our team continues to 
look for new opportunities to expand the program’s reach. 
We have recently added programs in Angola, Australia, 
Cameroon, China, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Guyana, 
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Mozambique, the Netherlands, 
Papua New Guinea, Saudi Arabia and Thailand.
ExxonMobil also works to address broader health issues 
and endemic diseases in the locations where we operate, 
for example, malaria in sub-Saharan Africa. In 2018, the 
Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa named ExxonMobil 
a Champion in Sustainability Malaria Programming. The 
alliance is a cross-industry group for companies working in 
Africa that aims to expand malaria-control efforts across 
the continent. ExxonMobil was recognized for its efforts to 
protect employees, contractors, suppliers and communities 
from malaria. The alliance’s board noted ExxonMobil’s  
efforts to build health facilities and improve clinical skills in  
malaria-endemic countries.HEALTHY AND ENGAGED WORKFORCE 
Diversity and inclusion 
Diversity of thought, ideas, perspectives, skill, knowledge 
and culture makes ExxonMobil more innovative, resilient and 
better able to navigate the complex and changing global 
energy business. Creating an inclusive workplace enables our 
global employees to bring their unique perspectives to help 
achieve ExxonMobil’s business objectives.
Our global workforce reflects the local communities and 
cultures where we operate. Our objectives are to seek 
and hire talented, dedicated employees and give them 
opportunities to learn, grow and succeed. The result is a 
diverse and multi-faceted employee base representing 
different perspectives and ideas. ExxonMobil encourages 
participation in employee-led resource groups that assist 
in fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion through 
development programs, community service opportunities 
and mentoring.
We consider and monitor diversity through all stages 
of employment, including recruitment, training and 
development of our employees.
For example, in 2018, 36 percent of our campus engineering 
hires in the United States were women, which is higher 
than the average annual percentage of female engineering 
graduates. Over the past decade, 40 percent of our 
worldwide management, professional and engineer 
hires were female. In the United States, 31 percent of 
management, professional and engineer hires were U.S. 
minorities over the same time period. In 2018, 20 percent  
of ExxonMobil’s global executive employee population  
were women, and 17 percent of our U.S. executives  
were minorities. 
Khadya Kichauhi, laboratory technician at the Antwerp refinery in Belgium, tests diesel samples.FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 20We implemented the 
Culture of Health program in 
22 countries, and our team 
continues to look for new 
opportunities to expand the 
program’s reach. CULTURE 
OF HEALTH 
PROGRAM IN 
22
COUNTRIES
Twenty percent of ExxonMobil’s 
executive employee population 
are women, an increase of  
43 percent over the past decade. 43%  
INCREASE 
IN FEMALE 
EXECUTIVES 
SINCE 2008
Seventeen percent of our U.S. 
executives are minorities, an 
increase of 55 percent over 
the past 10 years.55%  
INCREASE IN 
MINORITY 
EXECUTIVES  
SINCE 2008
ExxonMobil had more 
than 25,000 job rotations 
in support of employee 
development plans. 25K
JOB 
ROTATIONS 
WORLDWIDEOur Global Diversity Framework and Standards of Business Conduct  
govern ExxonMobil employment practices, including policies for 
recruitment, hiring, promotions and salary administration. The 
Standards support our commitment to provide equal employment 
opportunities, prohibit discrimination in the workplace and 
align with applicable laws in the countries where we operate. 
ExxonMobil uses a series of training programs and tools to help 
our employees understand cultural sensitivities across a diverse 
workforce. We do not tolerate harassment in any form. Employees 
are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, 
for any act of harassment. 
ExxonMobil has been recognized for our commitment to diversity. 
In March 2019, the company received the Keeper of the Flame 
Legacy Award from the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) at its 
75th anniversary event. The award recognizes companies that have 
supported UNCF since its inception in 1944.
Employee attraction and retention 
We prioritize the development of each one of our employees. 
It begins with recruiting exceptional talent and continues with 
individually planned assignments and experiences that lead 
to broad skill development and a deep understanding of our 
businesses. This career-oriented, personalized approach results in 
a retention rate of 96 percent and an average length of service of 
30 years for our career employees. It also facilitates development of 
the next generation of leaders from within the company.
Through a combination of work assignments, on-the-job 
experiences, and focused training and education, employees 
acquire the necessary skills and competencies to take on increasing 
levels of responsibility and job complexity.
ExxonMobil invests in our people for a long-term career . We 
spend an average of $100 million per year on training and in 
2018 had more than 25,000 job rotations in support of employee 
development plans.
Local workforce training at the Juni Training Center in Mozambique.2018 performance highlightsFOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 21ExxonMobil is committed to respecting human rights as 
a fundamental principle in our operations, implemented 
through training and the application of our policies and 
practices. Our business presence can and should have a 
positive influence on the people in the communities where 
we operate. Our practices reflect the spirit and intent of 
the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
Elements of the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights also guide our approach to 
managing human rights.
ExxonMobil conducts human rights training to help build an 
understanding of human rights issues and an awareness of 
potential human rights risks. More than 1,600 employees 
in 47 countries have completed the training since 2015. 
ExxonMobil utilizes a risk screening tool to assess potential 
human rights impacts associated with our activities, and 
integrates it into our Environmental, Socioeconomic and 
Health Impact Assessment process so that the risks are 
appropriately mitigated.
Our efforts to manage human rights issues reflect evolving 
international initiatives. ExxonMobil works closely with 
IPIECA to monitor business and human rights trends, and 
to share and develop practices in human rights supply 
chain management from the oil and gas industry and other 
extractive industries. 
ExxonMobil contributed to a set of practical guidance 
documents and tools issued by IPIECA on Company and 
Supply Chain Labour Rights in the Oil and Gas Industry . 
The series of guidance documents addresses the potential 
human rights impacts and issues that may occur through 
business relationships, particularly in the industry  
supply chain. Security and human rights
ExxonMobil’s Statement of Principles on Security and 
Human Rights establishes the expectation that all 
business units provide security for personnel, facilities 
and operations in a manner that respects human rights. 
The framework guides our majority-owned operating 
affiliates on how to manage interactions with both 
host government-assigned security and private security 
providers. It also provides guidance for documenting 
allegations of human rights abuses by public or private 
security personnel and any incidents of inappropriate 
physical force used by security providers in the protection 
of company assets. Depending on the nature of an 
incident, our procedures include reporting to  
host governments.
Where appropriate, our standard security services 
contracts include provisions requiring that personnel 
receive training to understand and comply with  
the following: 
• ExxonMobil’s Statement of Principles on Security  
and Human Rights
• Local laws and regulations
• Provisions of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights
• The Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of the 
1998 International Labour Organization Declaration 
• U.N. Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials
• U.N. Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by  
Law Enforcement OfficialsHUMAN RIGHTS
ExxonMobil, RISE International and Educate A Child have partnered to help remove barriers to 
education in Angola, including plans to build 25 primary schools to help 24,000 children. FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 22Since 2015, more than  
1,600 key employees in  
47 countries completed our 
human rights computer-based 
training module.We use a risk screening 
tool prior to conducting 
broader Environmental, 
Socioeconomic and Health 
Impact Assessments to 
mitigate potential human 
rights impacts.We have helped train nearly 
17,000 personnel on the 
Voluntary Principles.Since 2016, 220 procurement 
professionals have completed 
human rights awareness training.COMPUTER-
BASED HUMAN 
RIGHTS 
TRAINING IN 
47  
COUNTRIES 
SINCE 2015UTILIZED 
A RISK 
SCREENING 
TOOL~17K 
TRAINED ON 
VOLUNTARY
PRINCIPLES ON 
SECURITY AND 
HUMAN RIGHTS 
SINCE 2016220   
PROCUREMENT 
PROFESSIONALS 
TRAINED ON 
HUMAN RIGHTS 
SINCE 2016These standard security services contract provisions require 
contractors to monitor , report and investigate allegations 
of human rights abuses. Contractors are required to 
immediately remove any of their personnel credibly alleged 
to have committed a human rights abuse. 
Since 2016, nearly 17,000 personnel have been trained 
on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights, a multi-stakeholder initiative that focuses on ways 
to maintain the safety and security of operations while 
respecting human rights. Using the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights to train on-the-ground security 
personnel can help reduce human rights risks. 
In some instances, ExxonMobil is required by host 
governments to provide security services. ExxonMobil 
has signed agreements with governments in Chad, 
Colombia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea and Mozambique 
that include expectations for respecting human rights 
consistent with the Voluntary Principles, as well as 
compliance with relevant local, U.N. and other  
security-related frameworks.
Human rights in the supply chain 
ExxonMobil clearly communicates its expectations on 
human rights to its suppliers on an annual basis. These 
expectations include references to key international 
human rights frameworks, including the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and 
the International Labour Organization Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 
ExxonMobil also complies with all relevant laws and 
regulations regarding human rights. For example, in 
compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, we 
prepare an annual slavery and human trafficking statement . 
ExxonMobil’s annual conflict minerals filing to the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission provides  
disclosures regarding supply sources of gold, tin,  
tungsten and tantalum.In 2016, we developed human rights awareness training 
tailored to procurement professionals to help improve  
their understanding of human rights. Since then, we 
completed training for more than 220 ExxonMobil 
procurement employees. 
Our procurement department reviews goods purchased 
in countries that are included in the U.S. Department of 
Labor’s List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced 
Labor . The list calls attention to goods and countries that 
may use child or forced labor in production. While our 
review does not assess a material’s country of origin, it 
enables us to assess purchases of higher-risk commodities.  
In addition, we use data from our global purchasing 
systems and the Department of Labor’s list to prioritize 
mitigation efforts in our direct supply chain.2018 performance highlights
For information on supply chain management, including 
supplier diversity, visit our website.PERSONNEL LOCALLY HIRED IN 
SUPERVISORY OR MANAGERIAL POSITIONSPERSONNEL LOCALLY HIRED
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
77%30%ANGOLA
91%77%
INDONESIA
97%93%
MALAYSIA
98%90%
NIGERIA
94%88%
PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
68%19%CHAD
92%80%2018 local hiring
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 23COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS
ExxonMobil works closely with local communities where we 
operate to help support their needs. We collaborate with 
governments and local stakeholders to invest in programs 
that promote local economic growth and improve  
social conditions.
Local economic growth and development
ExxonMobil adds economic value to countries where we 
operate by employing and training the local workforce 
and supporting local suppliers. We develop a local content 
plan specific to each country or area to establish long-term 
economic benefits. When we hire local employees, they 
may receive additional training to develop technical and 
leadership skills, improving their overall employability. Our 
development program includes training on relevant technical 
and vocational skills, health and safety, environmental 
protection, management skills and business conduct.
ExxonMobil also helps drive local and regional economic 
progress. An example is ExxonMobil’s Growing the Gulf 
initiative. Growing the Gulf is expected to create more 
than 45,000 high-paying jobs by building and expanding 
manufacturing facilities along the U.S. Gulf Coast. The 
production of natural gas in U.S. shale basins, including those 
found in the Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico, 
has grown significantly in recent years and has enabled Gulf 
Coast development. A recent study estimates the company’s 
development of Permian Basin resources in New Mexico will 
generate approximately $64 billion in net economic benefits 
for the state and local communities over the next 40 years, 
creating thousands of new jobs and providing increased 
funding for education, health and human services, and 
infrastructure improvements.
ExxonMobil supports local communities by funding anti-malaria programs and providing 
malaria-prevention materials such as bed nets. Melissa Leroy, XTO Energy operations engineer, in Midland, Texas.
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 24Since 2000, we have 
contributed more than 
$1.3 billion to education 
programs around the world, 
including approximately  
$58 million in 2018. $1.3B
CONTRIBUTED 
TO EDUCATION
SINCE 2000
Since 2000, ExxonMobil  
has invested nearly  
$170 million to support 
malaria research, education 
and treatment programs.$170M  
INVESTED 
TO COMBAT 
MALARIA  
SINCE 2000
 Since 2005, we have 
invested approximately 
$120 million in programs 
that develop female 
entrepreneurs and business 
leaders and improve access 
to technology for women.$120M  
CONTRIBUTED 
TO IMPROVE 
WOMEN’S 
ECONOMIC 
OPPORTUNITIES 
SINCE 2005 Growing the Gulf is 
expected to create more 
than 45,000 jobs by 
building and expanding 
manufacturing facilities. CREATING 
45K+
JOBS IN THE 
GULF COAST
Spotlight
XTO Energy co-founds the  
Permian Strategic PartnershipExxonMobil’s XTO Energy subsidiary aims to balance growing 
energy production in the Permian Basin with the needs of 
communities in the area. In 2018, XTO Energy co-founded the 
Permian Strategic Partnership, an alliance of 20 energy companies 
developing oil and natural gas resources in the Permian Basin. 
The partnership collaborates with trade associations, chambers of 
commerce, local governments and philanthropic groups to address 
community challenges in western Texas and southeastern New 
Mexico. The partnership opened an office in 2019 to guide this 
multi-year effort.
Partnership members have collectively pledged more than  
$100 million to improve the quality of life for families in the area. 
Members are collaborating with local leaders to understand specific 
needs of individual communities. Through this initial engagement, 
the partnership identified the need for safer roads, better schools, 
quality health care, affordable housing and a trained workforce. It 
is in the process of identifying and supporting programs to help 
manage these needs.Social investments
Our social investments address key needs such as access 
to health care, disaster relief, education and economic 
development. In 2018, we contributed $211 million to 
communities around the world, which includes donations 
from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, the 
ExxonMobil Foundation, employee and retiree giving through 
ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs, and 
disaster relief. 
For example, in Angola, educational challenges include the 
shortage of appropriate facilities. In partnership with RISE 
International and Educate A Child, ExxonMobil plans to 
build 25 new primary schools in Angola for 24,000 children 
currently out of school in the provinces of Luanda, Benguela 
and Bié. At the end of 2018, seven schools were completed 
and the program began enrolling students. In January 2019, 
ExxonMobil celebrated the opening of two additional  
primary schools.
Our employees are passionate about engaging in their 
communities, and we encourage them to contribute to the 
communities where they live and work. Through our U.S. 
volunteer involvement program, we provide a $500 donation 
to the employee’s charity of choice for every 20 hours a 
volunteer works, up to four times per year . Over  
15,000 ExxonMobil employees, retirees and their families 
volunteered more than 440,000 hours at 3,500 charitable 
organizations in 33 countries in 2018. More than  
4,200 employees and retirees donated nearly $17 million  
to approximately 830 colleges and universities, as well as 
minority scholarship programs. The ExxonMobil Foundation 
matched that amount with nearly $33 million in 2018.
For information on working with local communities, please 
visit our website.2018 performance highlights$24M
Canada$30M
Europe
$23M
Africa/Middle East
$18M
Asia Pacific$112M
United States
$4M
Latin America
*Total contributions do not include environmental 
  capital and operating expenditures. $78M
Civic & community$41M
Higher education$40M
Employee & retiree giving$4M 
Public policy 
research
$5M 
United appeals & 
workplace giving$13M
Pre-college 
education$18M
Health & environment$6M
Women’s economic 
opportunity
$4M 
Other education$2M 
Arts & culture$211M WORLDWIDE TOTAL
Investments by focus area
Investments by geographic regionIn 2018, ExxonMobil contributed $211 million to communities around the world.* This includes donations from Exxon Mobil Corporation, our divisions and affiliates, the ExxonMobil Foundation,  
employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift and volunteer programs, and disaster relief.2018 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS
 *Total contributions do not include 
environmental capital and operating expenditures.
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 25The ExxonMobil board of directors. From left: Angela Braly, Kenneth Frazier, Steven Reinemund, Susan Avery,  
Samuel Palmisano, Darren Woods, William Weldon, Douglas Oberhelman, Ursula Burns and Steven Kandarian.GOVERNANCE
Good corporate governance creates a business environment 
conducive to long-term growth. ExxonMobil employs a variety of 
policies and processes to uphold high ethical standards and promote 
transparency. Our efforts are underpinned by a board of directors that 
provides strategic oversight of our corporation’s affairs.The Energy Center on the ExxonMobil Houston campus.
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 27ExxonMobil’s team of internal auditors annually reviews 
approximately one-third of the corporation’s activities and 
processes. Internal auditors have access to all operations, 
records, personnel and properties. We thoroughly 
investigate any suspected acts of noncompliance with the 
Standards of Business Conduct.
Employees in relevant job functions receive in-person 
training on anti-trust, anti-corruption, anti-boycott, trade 
sanctions and export controls soon after entering their 
positions and every year thereafter . In 2018, nearly  
37,000 employees and contractors participated in  
such training.ExxonMobil strives to uphold high ethical standards at all 
times and in all aspects of our business. Our Standards 
of Business Conduct set the ethical conduct expectations 
for our corporation and majority-owned subsidiaries. 
Employees must annually confirm that they have read 
and comply with the Standards to ensure a consistent 
understanding. ExxonMobil requires that all employees, 
officers, directors and those working on our behalf comply 
with all applicable laws. 
ExxonMobil encourages employees and contractors to  
ask questions, voice concerns and report any alleged 
violations of company policies. In addition to our  
open-door communication procedures, ExxonMobil has 
several confidential mechanisms for reporting. Employees 
can submit concerns through a 24-hour hotline phone 
number or a mailing address. We respect confidentiality, 
subject to legal requirements, and strictly prohibit retaliation 
against any employee for submitting concerns. A hotline 
steering committee reviews reports of suspected violations. 
The board audit committee, comprising three independent, 
non-employee directors, oversees accounting and internal 
control matters for the company, including compliance 
with legal and regulatory requirements. The board audit 
committee receives a quarterly report summarizing 
the steering committee’s findings, including any policy 
violations. Confirmed violations lead to disciplinary actions, 
up to and including termination. For more information on 
the board audit committee, visit the company’s annual  
proxy statement .
We conduct regular internal audits and self-assessments 
to verify the effectiveness of our control systems and 
adherence to our Standards of Business Conduct. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
2018 performance highlights
Nearly 37,000 employees and 
contractors participated in 
compliance training.ExxonMobil’s team of internal 
auditors annually reviews 
approximately one-third of 
the corporation’s activities 
and processes.37K
PARTICIPATED 
IN COMPLIANCE 
TRAINING ~1/3  
OF ACTIVITIES 
AND 
PROCESSES 
AUDITEDChairman and Chief Executive Officer Darren Woods speaks with shareholders at ExxonMobil’s 
Annual Shareholder Meeting in Dallas, Texas. 
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 28ExxonMobil’s board of directors provides oversight of the 
corporation’s affairs. Board members select an independent 
director to serve as the presiding director to help ensure 
a level of independence in our board leadership. Board 
members expect the presiding director to serve for a 
minimum of two years. The presiding director serves as a 
liaison to the chairman. The director reviews the schedule 
and agenda for all board meetings in advance, and in 
consultation with the chairman, as well as other materials 
distributed to the directors. The board believes the 
shareholder interests are best served through a leadership 
model combining the roles of chairman of the board and 
chief executive officer .
At year-end 2018, nine of ExxonMobil’s 10 directors were 
independent as defined by New York Stock Exchange 
guidelines. In 2018, the board of directors met nine times. 
ExxonMobil’s directors, on average, attended approximately 
99 percent of board and committee meetings during 2018. 
Board diversity  
ExxonMobil recognizes that the strength and effectiveness 
of the board reflects the balance, experience and diversity of 
the individual directors; their commitment; and the ability of 
directors to work effectively as a group in carrying out their 
responsibilities. The board affairs committee recommends 
board of director candidates in accordance with our 
Guidelines for the Selection of Non-employee Directors. The board affairs committee looks for highly qualified, 
non-employee candidates with demonstrated leadership, 
competency and a commitment to represent the interests of 
our shareholders.  
 
An independent executive search firm helps identify external 
candidates for consideration who have: 
• Achieved prominence in their fields;
• A diversity of backgrounds, including gender and  
race/ethnic diversity;
• Experience and demonstrated expertise in managing 
large, complex organizations such as that of chief 
executive officers or senior executives of a large company 
or organization with global operations;
• Expertise in financial and other risk management;
• Experience on one or more boards of significant public 
organizations or nonprofit organizations;
• Expertise resulting from significant professional or 
academically based scientific or research activities; and
• Experience with cyclical businesses such as commodities.
The board affairs committee considers recommendations 
from shareholders and board directors to help ensure the 
selection process is collaborative. At year-end 2018,  
44 percent of the board’s independent directors were female 
or an ethnic minority.BOARD LEADERSHIPFOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 29Spotlight
Public issues and contributions committee
Within ExxonMobil’s board of directors, the public issues and 
contributions committee reviews company policies, programs and 
practices on public issues to provide relevant feedback. A broad 
range of backgrounds and areas of expertise for individual public 
issues and contributions committee members helps to identify 
connections between different issues and ensures the group is 
able to evaluate and inform the board effectively on complex issues 
such as climate change risks. The public issues and contributions committee, along with other 
members of the board of directors, makes annual site visits to 
ExxonMobil operations to observe and provide input on current 
operating practices and external engagement.
In 2018, the public issues and contributions committee traveled 
to ExxonMobil’s Permian operations near Carlsbad, New Mexico. 
The visit included a tour of a well site where directional drilling and 
hydraulic fracturing technologies are being employed, as well as a 
production site where oil and gas are separated and stabilized prior 
to transport and use. Through these field visits, the committee 
is able to see first-hand and validate that the risk management 
process and Operations Integrity Management System are effective 
at protecting the corporation’s employees, the community and the 
environment. The committee utilizes this information, along with 
reports on the safety and environmental activities of the operating 
functions throughout the year , to provide recommendations to the 
full board.At year-end 2018, 
nine of ExxonMobil’s 
10 directors were 
independent as defined 
by New York Stock 
Exchange guidelines.9/10
INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS
The board of directors 
met nine times.9 
BOARD 
MEETINGS
On average, 
ExxonMobil’s directors 
attended ~99 percent 
of board and committee 
meetings.99%  
BOARD 
MEETING 
ATTENDANCE
At year-end 2018,  
44 percent of the 
board’s independent 
directors were female 
or an ethnic minority.44%
BOARD  
DIVERSITYEngagement on sustainability topics 
ExxonMobil’s board of directors is responsible for risk 
oversight. Meeting agendas routinely include sustainability 
topics and board members review the effectiveness of the 
company’s policies, programs and practices. The entire board 
receives regular briefings on public policy, scientific and 
technical research, as well as company and external positions 
related to environmental stewardship and climate change. 
Throughout the year , the board considers several  
climate-related matters. The board reviews the  
Outlook for Energy, the company’s safety, health and 
environmental performance, the annual corporate plan, 
shareholder proposals and regulatory filings.
Risk oversight is the responsibility of the entire board. The 
various board committees conduct deeper reviews and 
provide additional insight on important topics. For example, 
the audit committee assesses ExxonMobil’s overall risk 
management approach and structure to confirm risks across 
the company are being appropriately considered. 
Several sustainability-related topics typically fall under the 
purview of the board’s public issues and contributions 
committee (PICC). The PICC provides oversight of the 
corporation’s safety, security, health and environmental 
performance. The members review the company’s 
management practices on safety, security, health, the 
environment and corporate social responsibility, including 
actions taken to address climate change risks.
In 2018, the public issues and contributions committee traveled to our 
Permian operations near Carlsbad, New Mexico. 2018 performance highlightsThe United Nations headquarters in New York, New York.
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 30Transparency in payments to governments 
We recognize the importance of disclosing relevant 
payments to governments to reduce corruption, improve 
government accountability and promote greater economic 
stability worldwide. We consider the most successful 
transparency initiatives are those that: 
• Apply to all foreign, domestic and state-owned companies;
• Protect proprietary information to promote  
commercial competitiveness;
• Comply with international trade conventions and  
treaties; and
• Do not violate host government laws or  
contractual obligations. 
ExxonMobil is a founding member of the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global organization 
that promotes the accountable management of oil, natural 
gas and mineral resources. Companies and governments 
participating in EITI report payments and revenues, enabling 
EITI to reconcile any differences between the totals and 
publish validated total government revenues.
ExxonMobil actively participates at both the EITI secretariat 
and country levels. Every year , an ExxonMobil representative 
serves on the EITI board as either a primary or an  
alternate member .  We work with several governments that are EITI  
members, as well as others considering membership. 
Currently, 52 countries are compliant members or have 
been accepted as candidates to begin reporting under the 
EITI standard.
Policy engagement 
ExxonMobil believes sound public policy should include 
input from a variety of stakeholders. We recognize that 
public policy decisions made at all levels of government 
can have significant effects on our current and future 
operations. ExxonMobil exercises its right to support 
policies that promote stable investment for long-term 
business viability. 
ExxonMobil engaged on several issues in 2018 to support 
responsible economic, energy and environmental policies in 
the United States, including:
• Energy infrastructure: With the right regulatory policies 
in place, private investments in oil and gas infrastructure 
could exceed $1.3 trillion by 2035, adding 1 million U.S. 
jobs and increasing gross domestic product by almost 
$2 trillion, according to a study conducted by global 
consulting firm, IFC, commissioned by the American 
Petroleum Institute.ENGAGING WITH GOVERNMENTSThe United States Capitol in Washington, D.C.
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 31• Free-market policies: ExxonMobil is committed to 
ensuring a level playing field in energy markets and 
protecting consumer access to affordable, reliable and 
safe energy for homes and businesses. Policies that alter 
markets in ways that favor some fuel sources over others 
could impact free-market competition and negatively  
affect consumers.
• Regulatory reform: ExxonMobil supports legislation that 
enhances transparency, accountability and objectivity of 
regulatory processes to improve public safety and minimize 
economic cost.
• Trade: As a global company, ExxonMobil relies on free and 
fair trade agreements and policies, which include strong 
protections such as Investor State Dispute Settlement 
provisions. We support policies that maintain freedom to 
import and export goods and services, which also provide 
consumers with more choices. 
U.S. lobbying expenses
In 2018, ExxonMobil’s U.S. federal lobbying expenses totaled 
$11.2 million, as publicly reported in our filings under the 
Lobbying Disclosure Act. 
Further information on federal issues ExxonMobil lobbied in 
the United States in 2018 is available on our website. Political contributions  
The board of directors has authorized ExxonMobil to 
make political contributions to candidate committees and 
other political organizations as permitted by applicable 
laws in the United States and Canada. The board annually 
reviews ExxonMobil’s political contributions, as well as the 
contributions from the company-sponsored political action 
committee. Internal audits of the corporation’s public and 
government affairs activities routinely verify corporate 
contribution amount.
Eligible employees and retirees may participate in the  
U.S. political process by contributing to a voluntary,  
company-sponsored, federal PAC. ExxonMobil reports  
PAC contributions to the U.S. Federal Election Commission 
every month.In 2018, we contributed more than $273,000 to state 
candidates and caucuses in eight U.S. states. During 2018, 
ExxonMobil’s PAC disbursed nearly $920,000* to federal and 
state candidates. Corporate political contributions are subject 
to an internal review process that requires approval from  
the chairman. 
*Totals may not reflect some candidates’ failure to deposit, or returned 
contributions not yet posted.CASE STUDY
Exploratory drillship offshore Guyana.Nicholas Skeete, shorebase coordinator, oversees support vessels preparing to depart offshore.
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 33ExxonMobil has a significant presence in Guyana, with offices 
in the capital city of Georgetown and ongoing exploration 
and development operations offshore. As of July 2019, 
ExxonMobil’s discoveries in Guyana’s Stabroek Block represent 
more than 6 billion oil-equivalent barrels of recoverable 
resource. We recognize the importance of helping develop 
and produce Guyana’s energy resources in a way that benefits 
the country and its citizens.Local development
Providing opportunities for local hiring and development is 
a vital part of our commitment to sustainable operations in 
Guyana. We apply proven training curriculums, industry best 
practices and leading technology to support local workforce 
development. In 2018, our affiliates in Guyana increased their 
workforce to nearly 2,000 employees and contractors,  
54 percent of whom are Guyanese.As our projects progress, ExxonMobil, its contractors and 
subcontractors continue to build capacity of the Guyanese 
workforce. Our goal is to provide Guyanese personnel with 
technical and professional skills needed for existing and future 
operations. ExxonMobil provided more than 50,000 hours 
of training to individuals working on our projects during the 
second half of 2018, including training for careers in the 
emerging oil and gas industry in Guyana. More than  
25 Guyanese traveled internationally, including to Brazil, 
Indonesia and the United States, to gain hands-on training 
that they can apply to their work in Guyana. 
We are committed to working with Guyanese suppliers to help 
develop local businesses. In 2017, ExxonMobil established 
the Centre for Local Business Development (CLBD) in 
Georgetown, Guyana. The CLBD promotes long-term, 
economic growth by helping local businesses build capacity 
and improve competitiveness. In 2018, it delivered courses on 
offshore oil and gas, procurement, health, safety, security and 
the environment to more than 2,500 participants from  
local companies. As part of this effort, the CLBD also trained 
more than 185 members of technical and vocational schools 
and provided nearly 550 hours of training to participants from 
government ministries and agencies. In doing so, the CLBD 
helps improve knowledge of the oil and gas industry in  
the country. 
ExxonMobil contracted with nearly 500 Guyanese vendors to 
supply goods and services for our operations in 2018. We also 
spent nearly $60 million directly with Guyanese companies 
ranging from food providers to engineering services. 
ExxonMobil also collaborated with the CLBD to host a  
two-day supplier forum in 2018.  GUYANA OPERATIONSMangroves in Guyana. Ashlika Persaud, geoscientist, uses a geologic model to illustrate properties of a reservoir in Guyana.
FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA
2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 34In 2018, the ExxonMobil Foundation pledged $10 million 
over five years to support a collaboration with Conservation 
International and the University of Guyana to help advance 
a sustainable economy through investments in education, 
research, environmental management practices and 
conservation. Through the program, the University of Guyana 
and Conservation International will offer training for jobs 
that provide sustainable goods and services. The investment 
will also help expand conservation areas in the Rupununi 
Wetlands, aid mangrove restoration and bolster  
community-based fishing on Guyana’s coast. 
Safety 
As with any country in which we operate, successful 
development of Guyana’s oil and gas resources requires a 
constant focus on safety and emergency preparedness. To 
build local capacity, we work with Guyanese stakeholders 
to develop effective emergency response plans for our 
operations and lead oil spill preparedness and response 
courses as part of ongoing training efforts.Representatives from more than 750 Guyanese businesses had 
an opportunity to meet and interact with ExxonMobil and our 
contractors, learn more about our procurement practices and 
gain insight into future ExxonMobil activities. We use CLBD’s 
interactive database to post bid opportunities and identify 
potential local suppliers, contractors and subcontractors.
Biodiversity 
Understanding and protecting Guyana’s well-known, rich 
biodiversity is a key objective in successfully developing the 
country’s resources. We are working with local government 
and nonprofit organizations to help advance understanding 
of local biodiversity. For example, ExxonMobil consults with 
Guyanese scientists and government agencies to conduct 
onshore and offshore biodiversity surveys. In 2017 and 2018, 
ExxonMobil engaged a team of local experts to conduct a 
series of studies on avian and marine life in Guyana. The team 
also conducted the country’s first coastal-wide ecosystem 
services study to understand how coastal ecosystems support 
local populations. In 2018, more than 150 community members from six coastal 
regions participated in training courses. ExxonMobil provided 
trainers for the Guyana Civil Defense Commission (CDC) and 
National Oil Spill Response Committee focused on incident 
command training and oil spill management, and participated 
in CDC-led meetings of the National Oil Spill Response 
Committee. In addition to maintaining our own oil spill 
response plans, we are also working with the CDC to develop 
a National Oil Spill Response Plan, which the government 
plans to put in place before anticipated oil production in 2020.
Stakeholder engagement
Cultivating and maintaining positive relationships in countries 
where we operate is critical to our business success. 
ExxonMobil regularly engages stakeholders in Guyana, 
including government entities, nongovernmental organizations 
and local communities. We use multiple communication 
channels, including social media, to provide public updates 
on our activities. We also created a television program called 
Access ExxonMobil Guyana, which broadcasts new episodes 
on our activities every six to eight weeks.FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 35This 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights summarizes ExxonMobil’s approach to managing our 
operations and describes our environmental, social and governance performance. This report 
focuses on 10 key topics for our business. For further information on all topics that are important 
to ExxonMobil, please visit our website. 
We developed this year’s Sustainability Report in accordance with the reporting guidelines and 
indicators of IPIECA, the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social 
issues, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers and the American Petroleum 
Institute. This report focuses on ExxonMobil’s operations from January 1, 2018, through 
December 31, 2018, unless otherwise indicated. This 2018 Sustainability Report Highlights uses 
qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and 
performance. Note that many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this report continue 
to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of 
preparation, but should not be considered guarantees.Issue review  
Consistent with IPIECA’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 
we use a “materiality process” to identify sustainability topics that are relevant to the company 
and our key stakeholders. ExxonMobil began conducting annual materiality assessments in 2006 
to identify environmental, social and governance issues of particular interest to our stakeholders. 
We conduct an annual assessment to ensure our analysis reflects events and changing business 
priorities. The results of our materiality assessment help inform the development of our annual 
Sustainability Report. Read more about our materiality assessment . 
We list the 2018 material issues below. For the purposes of this report, the concept of “material 
issues” refers to IPIECA reporting guidance on potential disclosures and does not correspond to 
the concept of materiality used in the securities laws and disclosures required by U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission rules. Visit our content index for a detailed mapping of the locations of 
information regarding material issues. 
Environment
• Environmental management 
system
• Engaging on climate change policy
• Managing climate change risks
• Developing innovative products 
and technology
• Managing impacts on air and water
• Waste management 
• Spill performance 
• Operating in sensitive environmentsSocial
• Safety
• Workplace security
• Community investments 
• Working with local 
communities 
• Human rights 
• Supply chain management
• Healthy and engaged 
workforce Governance
• Ethics and integrity
• Board leadership 
• Engaging with 
governments
• Shareholder relationsABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS
More about this report
Additional resources
Energy & Carbon Summary
exxonmobil.com/ecsummaryEnergy Factor
energyfactor .exxonmobil.comSummary Annual Report
exxonmobil.com/annualreportThe Outlook for Energy
exxonmobil.com/energyoutlookExplore our online 2018 Sustainability Report
exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport
Content index
exxonmobil.com/contentindex
Report archive
exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreportarchiveFOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 36We assess our performance to support continual improvements throughout the organization. Since 2011, performance data include XTO Energy information. In 2014, we started reporting our data over 
a 10-year period to demonstrate trends over time as part of our commitment to transparency. The reporting guidelines and indicators of IPIECA, the International Oil and Gas Producers Association and 
the American Petroleum Institute Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015) informed what data we included in the performance table. For additional information on our 
sustainability reporting, visit the content index.PERFORMANCE DATA
1 Greenhouse gas emissions, absolute (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons
2 Direct (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)
3 Emissions associated with imported power
CO2 (excluding emissions from exported power and heat)
Methane (CO2-equivalent)
Other gases (CO2-equivalent)
Emissions from exported power and heat
By-region greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons
Africa/Europe/Middle East
Americas
Asia Pacific
By-division greenhouse gas emissions (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), millions of metric tons
Upstream
Downstream
Chemical
1 Greenhouse gas emissions, normalized (net equity, CO2-equivalent emissions), 
metric tons per 100 metric tons of throughput or production
Upstream
Downstream
Chemical123
114
9
119
3
1
14
43
62
18
47
56
20
20.1
21.0
60.72009
126
117
9
122
3
1
13
45
64
17
50
55
21
20.5
20.8
57.92010
128
119
9
124
3
1
15
45
66
17
54
54
20
20.7
20.0
57.22011
126
118
8
120
5
1
15
44
68
14
56
51
19
22.3
19.6
56.32012
127
119
8
119
7
1
16
44
70
13
58
49
20
23.2
19.7
57.92013
124
116
8
116
7
1
8
43
66
15
56
47
21
24.0
19.2
54.52014
122
114
8
115
6
1
4
44
65
13
56
45
21
23.9
18.9
54.82015
125
117
8
118
7
<1
3
45
64
16
59
45
21
24.7
19.4
53.92016
123
115
8
116
7
<1
3
43
64
16
58
43
22
24.7
18.6
54.2124
116
8
117
7
<1
3
42
63
19
58
42
24
25.3
18.6
55.72017 2018Environment*FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 37Energy use (billion gigajoules)
Upstream (gigajoules per metric tons production)
Downstream (gigajoules per metric tons throughput)
Chemical (gigajoules per metric tons product)
Hydrocarbon flaring (worldwide activities), millions of metric tons
4 Cogeneration capacity in which we have interest, gigawatts
Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters
Freshwater consumption, millions of cubic meters
Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production
Upstream
Downstream
Chemical
Marine vessel spills (owned and long-term leased), number of hydrocarbon spills > 1 barrel
Spills (not from marine vessels), number of oil, chemical and drilling fluid spills > 1 barrel
Hydrocarbons spilled (oil spilled), thousands of barrels
Other spills, thousands of barrels
Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons
Upstream
Downstream
Sulfur dioxide (SO2) emitted, millions of metric tons
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons
Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars
Total dollars spent on environmental penalties, fines and settlements, billions of dollars
Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons
5 Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons1.5
1.9
3.0
9.8
4.4
4.9
N/A
340
0.1
0.9
2.5
0
242
17.4
0.5
1.4
1.1
0.3
0.16
0.13
0.18
5.1
0.002
1.2
0.82009
1.5
2.0
3.0
9.5
3.6
4.9
N/A
330
0.1
0.9
2.4
0
210
7.7
40.4
1.3
1.1
0.2
0.14
0.12
0.18
4.5
0.011
0.6
1.32010
1.5
2.0
3.0
11.4
4.0
5.0
540
370
0.3
0.9
2.6
0
484
17.8
2.0
1.3
1.1
0.2
0.13
0.15
0.18
4.9
0.003
1.3
1.92011
1.5
2.0
3.0
12.0
3.5
5.2
520
330
0.3
0.8
2.4
0
356
8.5
1.6
1.2
1.0
0.2
0.13
0.14
0.15
5.5
0.004
1.7
2.02012
1.4
2.1
3.0
10.9
3.7
5.3
420
280
0.2
0.7
2.0
0
331
9.3
0.9
1.1
1.0
0.1
0.12
0.14
0.15
6.0
0.002
1.1
0.32013
1.4
2.3
2.9
10.7
4.5
5.5
420
270
0.2
0.7
1.8
0
337
9.1
4.1
1.3
1.2
0.1
0.10
0.14
0.16
6.2
0.015
1.0
0.32014
1.5
2.4
2.9
10.9
5.3
5.5
450
300
0.4
0.7
1.8
0
321
10.8
0.4
1.1
1.0
0.1
0.11
0.14
0.16
5.7
0.005
1.4
0.22015
1.5
2.4
2.9
10.6
5.0
5.3
430
280
0.3
0.8
1.7
0
220
4.7
3.7
1.1
1.0
0.1
0.11
0.13
0.15
4.9
0.006
1.4
0.12016
1.4
2.5
2.9
10.5
3.8
5.4
440
290
0.3
0.8
1.7
0
204
6.9
1.8
1.7
1.6
0.1
0.10
0.12
0.15
4.7
0.001
1.5
0.21.5
2.6
3.0
10.1
4.0
5.4
470
310
0.5
0.7
1.8
0
333
11.3
0.8
0.8
0.7
0.1
0.11
0.12
0.17
4.9
0.001
1.1
0.22017 2018Environment (continued)*FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 382009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Social
GovernanceFatalities — employees
Fatalities — contractors
6 Fatal accident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)
6 Fatal incident rate — total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)
7 Lost-time incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)
7 Lost-time incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)
7 Lost-time incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)
7 Total recordable incident rate — employees (per 200,000 work hours)
7 Total recordable incident rate — contractors (per 200,000 work hours)
7 Total recordable incident rate — total workforce (per 200,000 work hours)
Process Safety Tier 1 Events (API RP 754 guidance)
8,9 Number of regular employees at year end, thousands
9 Percent of workforce — outside the United States
9 Percent women — global workforce
Percent management and professional new hires — women (campus and experienced)
Percent management and professional new hires — outside the United States (campus and experienced)
Number of non-unique employee participants in corporate and technical training, thousands
Total corporate and technical training expenditures, millions of dollars
10 Community investments, millions of dollars
United States
Rest of world
11 ExxonMobil spending with U.S. diverse suppliers, millions of dollars4
4
0.017
0.012
0.043
0.040
0.041
0.32
0.39
0.36
69
81
63
26
38
63
52
71
235.0
143.0
92.0
8870
3
0.006
0.006
0.048
0.031
0.038
0.25
0.34
0.30
62
84
60
26
40
70
61
77
237.1
154.8
82.3
8410
9
0.017
0.017
0.064
0.086
0.077
0.30
0.41
0.37
70
82
61
26
44
79
65
80
278.4
161.3
117.1
1,0681
4
0.010
0.010
0.042
0.049
0.047
0.25
0.37
0.33
63
77
59
28
39
68
76
88
255.6
156.5
99.1
1,0010
6
0.011
0.009
0.051
0.041
0.044
0.22
0.32
0.29
62
75
59
28
39
66
87
96
269.5
156.3
113.2
1,0240
3
0.006
0.006
0.032
0.031
0.031
0.19
0.29
0.26
65
75
58
28
40
61
79
117
279.5
150.2
129.3
1,1080
2
0.004
0.004
0.045
0.029
0.035
0.21
0.26
0.24
74
73
59
28
41
61
85
124
272.3
145.5
126.8
1,0640
3
0.008
0.008
0.027
0.030
0.029
0.16
0.23
0.20
64
71
59
28
44
74
83
108
241.5
131.1
110.4
1,4420
2
0.005
0.005
0.034
0.027
0.029
0.15
0.22
0.19
63
70
60
28
41
67
98
94
204.0
125.3
78.7
1,9020
3
0.007
0.007
0.037
0.031
0.034
0.14
0.26
0.22
73
71
60
29
37
62
87
62
211.0
112.0
99.0
2,267
12 Number of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) participating countries
Corporate political contributions — U.S. state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars
Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting8
0.49
82.97
1.10
80.77
0.51
81.97
1.03
83.09
0.70
82.310
1.17
82.911
0.58
83.915
0.52
85.118
0.51
85.719
0.62
85.5FOREWORD  | ENVIRONMENT  | SOCIAL  | GOVERNANCE  | CASE STUDY  | ABOUT THIS REPORT  | PERFORMANCE DATA  2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIGHLIGHTS  | 39Footnotes
† Natural gas converted to oil-equivalent barrels using 6 million cubic feet per 1,000 barrels.
‡ Sales data reported net of purchases/sales contracts with the same counterparty.
*ExxonMobil-operated emission estimates are based on a combination of measured and estimated emissions data using best available information. Our calculations are based on industry standards and best practices, including guidance from 
the American Petroleum Institute (API) and IPIECA. The uncertainty associated with the emission estimates depends on variation in the processes and operations, the availability of sufficient data, the quality of those data and methodology 
used for measurement and estimation. Changes to the estimates may be reported as updated data and/or emission methodologies become available. We work with industry, including API and IPIECA, to improve emission factors and 
methodologies. Emission estimates from non-ExxonMobil-operated facilities are included in the equity data. The data includes XTO Energy performance beginning in 2011. 
1 The net equity greenhouse gas emissions metric was introduced in 2011 as a replacement for the direct equity greenhouse gas metric. Information has been restated back to 2009 according to the new metric. The net equity greenhouse gas 
metric includes direct and imported greenhouse gas emissions and excludes emissions from exports (including Hong Kong Power through mid-2014). ExxonMobil reports greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis for all our business 
operations, reflecting our percent ownership in an asset.
2 The addition of direct emissions and emissions associated with exported power and heat is equivalent to World Resources Institute (WRI) Scope 1.
3 These emissions are equivalent to WRI Scope 2.
4 Cumulative figure.
5 The value for hazardous waste from ongoing operations includes produced water classified as hazardous waste by one local authority, which is approximately 70-95 percent of the reported figure in 2009-2012.
6 Workforce includes employees and contractors. Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses. From 2009 through 2018 all fatalities were injury-related.
7 Incidents include injuries and illnesses. Safety data are based on information at the time of publication. Workforce includes employees and contractors.
8 Reduction from 2011 primarily due to divestment and restructuring activity in the downstream business.
9 Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full-time or part-time for ExxonMobil and are covered by ExxonMobil’s benefit plans and programs. Employees at our 
company-operated retail stores are not included.
10 Total contributions include ExxonMobil corporate and foundation donations, and employee and retiree giving through ExxonMobil’s matching gift, disaster relief and employee giving programs.
11 Beginning in 2015, our spending encompassed an expanded set of diverse classifications that includes: minority-owned businesses, women-owned businesses, small business-owned, lesbian-, gay-, bisexual- and transgender-owned 
businesses, veteran-owned businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned businesses and businesses owned by peoples with disabilities. Prior to 2014, spending included minority- and women-owned businesses.
12 In countries where ExxonMobil has an upstream business presence.
N/A is used to indicate that data are not available.Exxon Mobil Corporation
Corporate Headquarters
5959 Las Colinas Blvd.
Irving, Texas 75039-2298
exxonmobil.comExplore our online 2018 Sustainability Report  at exxonmobil.com/sustainabilityreport .
On the cover
Gladston Serrao, wells engineer , at the Liza 2 platform 
offshore Guyana.