3 A M essage from our CEO
4
 Our S
tory
8
 R
esponding to COVID-19
9
 Gov
ernance, Ethics, and Compliance
18
 Our P
eople
27
 Our P
roducts 
34
 Our Plane
t
39
 Our P
artnerships
42
 Dat
a and Performance
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
2A Message from our CEO
I am proud to share our inaugural Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Report. We believe that operating with integrity and conducting our business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner is critical to our long-term success. In the following pages you’ll learn more about the progress we’ve made in formalizing our ESG strategy, including conducting our first materiality assessment and creating an executive ESG Steering committee, to guide our efforts going forward.
Our mission of improving lives one person at a time 
is grounded in enhancing the health and wellness of people and communities across the globe. We have aligned our commitments with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”), in particular with three SDGs that most closely connect with our business: #3 Good Health and Well-being, #12 Responsible Consumption and Production, and #17 Partnerships.
This report also details our commitment to bringing 
health and vision care to more people around the world through ethical business practices and innovative, high-quality products. It spells out how we foster an inclusive workplace, reduce our environmental impacts, and strategically invest in programs that benefit our employees, society, and the planet.
Looking back at the past year, I am proud of our 
response to the pandemic and impressed with the significant accomplishments of our team during this difficult time. We implemented health and safety programs for our workforce, provided full pay and benefits to 100% of employees even when our plants were temporarily shut down, and had zero involuntary reductions due to COVID-19. At the same time, we launched new products, strengthened operations with new manufacturing lines, established a leadership position in myopia management, and scaled up new channels of distribution quickly. 
A brief sampling of other recent accomplishments 
includes:
•
 Intr
oducing clariti® 1 day as the first net plastic 
neutral contact lens in the U.S.
•
 Achieving LEED® Silv
er certification of our global 
manufacturing facility in Puerto Rico
•
 Sour
cing 100% renewable electricity in all key 
facilities in New York and the United Kingdom
•
 Est
ablishing a Global Inclusion Council comprised 
of senior leaders to advance our culture of diversity 
and inclusion
•
 Achieving C
ertification as a Great Place to 
Work in the U.S. (for the third consecutive year) and recognition as one of the Top 10 Best Large Workplaces in Manufacturing and Production in the U.S.
•
 Signing the CEO Ac
tion for Diversity & 
Inclusion™ Pledge•  Launching MiSight® 1 day c ontact lens in the 
U.S., following groundbreaking approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
•
 E
xpanding our Biofinity brand offering to include 
Biofinity® toric multifocal contact lenses globally to support patients for whom contact lens wear was previously a challenge 
•
 Ac
quiring Embryo Options, an established leader 
in cryo-storage software solutions for clinics and patients
•
 Upgr
ading RI Witness™ Assisted Reproductive 
Technology (ART) Management System, an electronic quality control solution that helps safeguard every step of the IVF cycle
•  Updating our Code of Conduct
As our business has grown and evolved over the 
past 60-plus years, our commitment to responsible business practices has deepened. There is much to be proud of and we are committed to accomplishing more. We plan to strengthen and expand ESG commitments and look forward to continuing to report on how Cooper supports a healthy and sustainable world.
ALBERT G. WHITE III, 
President and Chief Executive Officer
Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
3
IntroductionOur Story
Often healthcare can be reactive and routine, 
but good healthcare is more than the absence of illness. Today, people are looking for options to support how they want to live at every stage of life. And in areas where choices are available, they want to partner with their healthcare provider so they can make well-informed decisions.
CooperCompanies stands apart as a global 
consumer medical device company that elevates standards of care. Our two business units have earned the trust of doctors and clinicians worldwide by delivering practice-building resources and training.
CooperVision (CVI) is one of the world’s 
leading manufacturers of soft contact lenses, providing a full array of daily disposable, two-week, and monthly soft contact lenses that feature advanced materials and optics. CVI has a strong heritage of solving the toughest vision challenges and is advancing the range of what contact lenses can do, such as its groundbreaking introduction of contact lenses proven to slow the progression of myopia in children age 8-12. CooperVision Specialty EyeCare develops, manufactures, and provides access to a portfolio of industry leading soft custom and rigid gas permeable lens designs, including orthokeratology and scleral lenses to address myopia, irregular cornea, and presbyopia management.
CooperSurgical (CSI) advances the care 
of women, babies, and families around the world. The organization provides a wide range of products, technologies, and services with an emphasis on fertility solutions and preventative and therapeutic women’s healthcare. For more than 30 years, CSI has earned the trust of patients and healthcare providers by partnering on improved outcomes.
Improving lives, one person at a time
Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
4
IntroductionCooperCompanies at a Glance
NYSE: COO
INTRODUCTION responding to covid-19 governance, ethics and compliance our people our products our planet our communities data and performance 
Headquartered  
in San Ramon, CA
130  
countries 
Products sold  
in more than60% 
of employees are 
in manufacturing, 
distribution, or R&DWorldwide          
revenue
$2.4B  Year 
founded
1958
12,000   
employees in over 
30 countries
Nearly
2020 Revenue
CooperVision  
$1,843MCooperSurgical  
$588M
Number of  
people our  
products benefited2 New product 
launches2
10 
~ 43.5M
1 Revenues are for fiscal year ending October 31, 2020
2 In calendar year 20201
More than
Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
5
IntroductionINTRODUCTION responding to covid-19 governance, ethics and compliance our people our products our planet our communities data and performance 
50% 
board gender 
diversity as of 
July 2021
60% 
of new hires, 
VP and up, were 
women3
85% 
of surveyed employees 
are satisfied with  
their job
5 
facilities LEED® 
or BREEAM® 
certified 100% 
renewable electricity 
sourcing at all key 
facilities in New York  
and the United  
KingdomFIRST 
net plastic neutral 
contact lens
Code of
Conduct
updated in 2021
$1.3M 
raised for Optometry 
Giving Sight, providing  
eye exams for more than 
250,000 people4Key ESG Highlights
2020 U.S. AWARDS 
Certification as a Great 
Place to Work (for the third consecutive year) 
Fortune’s Top 10 Best Large 
Workplaces in Manufacturing  
and Production
 3 October 2019 - May 2020
4  Cumulative since 2011
Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
6
IntroductionR&D sites: U.K.; U.S. (California); 
U.S. (Connecticut)
CooperSurgical Centers of 
Excellence: China; Denmark; India; Japan; Russia; U.K.;  U.S. (New Jersey)
Manufacturing & Distribution: 
Australia; Belgium; Brazil; Canada; Chile; Costa Rica (CVI LEED® certified); Denmark; Hungary; Israel; Japan; Mexico; Netherlands; Puerto Rico (LEED® certified); Spain (LEED® certified); South Africa; T aiwan; U.K. (BREEAM® certified); U.S. Global Operations
Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
7
IntroductionResponding to COVID-19
• 100% of emplo yees received full pay and benefits 
even when plants temporarily closed;
•
 0 inv
oluntary reductions due to COVID-19;
•
 Additional paid time off
 was provided to address 
personal situations as appropriate and where possible;
•
 Enhanc
ed safety measures for those working onsite, 
including increased sanitation, physical distancing, and 
contact tracing;
•
 Shifting emplo
yees to remote work wherever 
possible;
•
 T
raining and support for our managers and 
employees on how to work and thrive in a virtual working environment;
•
 570 opt
ometry practices received complimentary 
lenses to distribute to essential hospital workers;• Int eractive, digital training programs developed for 
eye care, medical, fertility, and genomics professionals, reproductive endocrinologists, and embryologists;
•
 E
xtended payment terms to many customers;
•
 C
onsistent supply of products; and
•
 20,000 disposable mask
s, sanitization kits, and PPE 
donated.
While the pandemic has been incredibly challenging for 
all of us, we are proud of how we came together as an organization to care for each other, our communities, and people across the world. For more information on how we supported each other and our communities visit our website.Our Company values help guide our responses to the COVID-19 crisis and our priority throughout the pandemic continues to be the safety and care of our employees. We moved quickly to connect with and help protect our employees, provide products to global consumers and medical providers without interruption, and looked for opportunities across our businesses to help where we could, while finding inventive and new ways to run our businesses. Our response included:
We care for our employees, customers, and communities.
Introduction Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
8
Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, 
and Compliance
OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,  
AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) TOPICS 
We believe that conducting our business in a socially and environmentally 
responsible manner is important to our long-term success and the future of our planet. It allows us to manage potential risks to our Company and to identify opportunities that will help drive our long-term strategic plan.
Materiality Assessment
In 2021, to help inform our approach to ESG, we conducted a formal materiality assessment to identify critical ESG priorities, opportunities, risks, and trends affecting our stakeholders, our businesses, and our industry over the coming years. For the purposes of this report, we use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s definition of “material” topics to reflect Cooper’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts or areas that substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
As part of this assessment, we researched more than 300 ESG topics of 
potential relevance to Cooper. We then prioritized these topics by evaluating: ESG reporting frameworks, including the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the GRI, and the World Economic Forum’s Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics; risk factors listed in our 10-K; ESG rating organizations’ focus areas for the medical device industry, including MSCI, ISS, and Sustainalytics; and topics determined to be material by our peers. We weighted the scoring based on recent investor feedback, giving highest weighting to topics within the SASB Materiality Map for the medical equipment and supplies industry. This analysis pared the list down to 38 ESG topics.IN THIS  
SECTION: 
Our Approach to ESG
Corporate GovernanceEthical Business 
Practices
Information Security 
and Data Privacy
Where We’re Going NextWe consider our social and environmental responsibility throughout 
our Company and supply chain. We operate with integrity, learning and improving as we go. 
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
9
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance We then conducted a highly 
quantitative assessment with more than 100 internal and external stakeholders including customers, partners, investors, executives, and members of our Board of Directors, coupled with qualitative input, to assess the relative importance of these 38 ESG topics. Finally, we constructed our Materiality Matrix by mapping topics by importance to our stakeholders and level of business impact. 
Through this process, we identified 
nine high-priority ESG topics, which inform our ESG approach, guide our ESG disclosure strategy, and which are discussed in more detail in this report. This report is our first account of our performance on ESG issues. We plan to produce an ESG data snapshot in 2022, while we work towards producing annual ESG reports beginning in 2023. CooperCompanies Materiality Matrix
BUSINESS IMPACTSTAKEHOLDER IMPORTANCE
Priority topic
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
10
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Contributing to the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals
As a global consumer medical device 
company, we recognize the powerful role we can play in contributing to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a collection of 17 interconnected global goals that promote a better and more sustainable future for all. The SDGs provide a framework for Cooper’s ESG strategy, help guide our priorities, and provide an opportunity to demonstrate how our products and purpose link directly to broader societal aspirations.
Our current efforts focus on three SDGs, #3 
Good Health and Well-being, #12 Responsible Consumption and Production, and #17 Partnership for the Goals, which we believe to be most relevant to our organization and where we can contribute in the most meaningful way. We plan to conduct further analysis of our ESG commitments to help determine where we can do more to support the SDGs.
Read more in Our Products and  
Our Planet.
PEOPLE
• Dev elop life-changing 
solutions to address health 
challenges, with continuous focus on product quality and patient safety 
•
 F
oster an inclusive, healthy, 
safe, and engaged workforcePLANET
• Sus tainably manage and 
reduce the environmental impacts of our operations 
•
 Int
egrate sustainable design 
innovations into our products and packaging PARTNERSHIP
• C ollaborate with customers, 
suppliers, and communities to accelerate social and environmental improvements
•
 F
oster partnerships with 
charitable and other organizations to address unmet healthcare needs
ESG Framework
Responsible Business Practices:  
•  High standards of ethics, compliance, and accountability in all that we do
•  Continued investment in the ESG infrastructure, systems, and capabilities of the organization
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
11
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Stakeholder Engagement
Within each of our ESG areas, Cooper 
engages with various stakeholders including investors, customers, representatives from government, regulators, civil society, patient advocacy groups, employees, academia, suppliers, and industry groups through one-on-one discussions, conferences, working groups, consortiums, and digital communications. In 2020, we responded to stakeholder feedback by enhancing transparency on ESG matters through our public disclosures and initiating ESG Action Plans to further improve our performance.
Read about how Cooper achieves more 
through Partnerships.STAKEHOLDERS PRIORITY TOPICS IN 2020 
Customers •
 P
roduct quality and safety 
•
 F
rictionless customer experience
•
 C
onsistent supply of product
Employees •
 He
alth and safety, and support during COVID-19
•
 Div
ersity and inclusion
•
 T
raining, development, and career opportunities 
Investors •
 ESG ov
ersight
•
 ESG dat
a
Society (government, regulators,  
local communities, nonprofits, suppliers,  and business partners)•
 Incr
eased patient access across local communities 
•
 C
ollaborating with partners and suppliers
•
 Suppor
ting our associations (through advocacy)
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
12
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance ESG Oversight 
Per its charter, the Corporate Governance 
and Nominating Committee of the Cooper Board of Directors monitors and oversees the Company’s ESG strategy, practices, and initiatives. The Company provides the Committee with periodic ESG updates and reports to the full Board on ESG issues multiple times per year. The Organization and Compensation Committee oversees the company’s Human Capital Management, including diversity and inclusion.
Our Vice President of Corporate Marketing, 
Communications & ESG leads our ESG initiatives. To integrate ESG throughout our operations, we established a cross-functional ESG Project Team in 2020. The team is led by our Senior Director of Corporate Responsibility and meets frequently to review ESG initiatives. Members are responsible for leading ESG Actions Plans within their functional areas, as well as for identifying emerging ESG issues and raising them to the team for discussion and analysis. We also have an ESG Executive Steering Committee on which our Vice President of Global Marketing, Communications & ESG serves as the executive sponsor.ESG is not a stand-alone function at 
Cooper. It is an integral component and part of the fabric of how we operate, and we are increasing our focus on how we measure and manage ESG initiatives because we know it is essential to our long-term growth and sustainability.”“
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Financial Officer
General Counsel and 
Corporate Secretary
VP of Global Human 
ResourcesVP of Global Marketing, 
Communications & ESG* 
Chief Operating Officer & 
President of CooperVision
President of CooperSurgical
Human Resources
Manufacturing
Distribution
Supply ChainLegal
Regulatory
Quality Assurance
CommercialESG Team
Senior Director of Corporate Responsibility
ESG Project ManagerExecutive Steering Committee
ESG Cross-Functional Project TeamESG Structure
LISA FAWCETT 
Vice President, 
Corporate Marketing, Communications, and ESG 
 * Executive Sponsor of ESG Team
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
13
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Strong governance practices provide 
long-term value for our shareholders, customers, employees, and communities. Our Board of Directors has adopted corporate governance principles that serve as a framework for the governance of the Company. The principles are available on our website.
Cooper’s Board Of Directors
When our newest Director officially joins the Board in July 2021, the Cooper Board of Directors will consist of eight Directors, six of whom are independent based on NASDAQ rules for Director independence. We maintain separate positions for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and maintain an independent Lead Director position.
The Board has three committees: Corporate 
Governance and Nominating Committee, Audit Committee, and Organization and Compensation Committee, each consisting solely of independent Directors. We strive to maintain a healthy blend of Director tenure, recognizing that longer-serving Directors possess crucial institutional knowledge of our Company and its culture, while periodic refreshment brings a new outlook and contributes to Board independence and oversight. Starting July 2021, the average tenure of our Directors is 7.75 years.
We prioritize Board diversity and are 
mindful of the many ways the Board benefits from a wide range of viewpoints, perspectives, and backgrounds. As of July 2021 when our new Director officially joins the Board, we will have one Board member who identifies as racially/ethnically diverse and four female Directors out of eight. We are especially proud to reach gender parity on our Board in 2021. For detailed information about our Board’s unique set of experiences and qualifications, as well as Committee Charters visit our website.
Risk Management 
Senior management, with Board oversight, maintains responsibility for creating an appropriate culture of risk at Cooper. Our Global Risk Committee (GRC), comprised of senior-level management, is responsible for the identification of key and emerging risks at the enterprise level along with regular reviews of risk mitigation plans. The GRC meets quarterly and provides an annual report to that Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on the state of our Enterprise Risk Management activities.
The Board takes an active role in 
understanding Cooper’s risk profile and assisting senior management with addressing specific risks. The Board also reviews and, where appropriate, approves major changes of the Company’s Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Principles, and other Company policies. For more information on the role of the Board, please see our 10-K.
Executive Compensation 
Our executive compensation program is designed to retain and incentivize a talented, motivated, and focused executive team by providing compensation that is competitive within our market. We believe that our executive compensation program provides an appropriate balance between salary and “at-risk” forms of incentive compensation.
Read more in our most recent Proxy 
Statement.Board Independence Gender Diversity 
Director TenureRacial / Ethnic 
Diversity
Non-independent Director
Independent DirectorMenWomen
Non-minority ethnic groupsMinority ethnic groups
0-5 years6-10 years
10+ years
Board Statistics5
2
64 4
1
752
1
5 As of July 1, 2021
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
14
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Since 2013, CooperCompanies 
has been a member of TRACE International Inc., an anti-bribery industry association that helps global companies conduct business ethically and in compliance with anti-bribery regulations. 
TRACE INTERNATIONAL
ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES
We uphold high standards of ethics in our relationships with customers, employees, suppliers, investors, and the public. One of our ESG Action Plans for 2021 was to complete a full update and refresh of our Code of Conduct. This project included reviewing and updating our conduct expectations for topics in the Code, adding new topics that are relevant to our global operations, and improving its readability.
Our Code applies globally to our employees, 
officers, and Directors. It is available in multiple languages and we provide the Code to new employees on their date of hire and annually thereafter. We provide ethics training and education globally targeted to employee roles and functions and require that employees annually certify their agreement and abide by the Code. Topics include, but are not limited to, conflicts of interest; health and safety; diversity and inclusion; interactions with customers, suppliers, competitors, and third-parties; anti-corruption; government relations; and compliance with laws and regulations, including those relating to insider trading, equal employment opportunity, harassment, and privacy of information.Employees are encouraged and expected to report suspected violations of the Code to their manager or to a representative from our Legal Compliance or Human Resources departments and we maintain a strict non-retaliation policy. Employees can also report suspected violations anonymously through our third-party managed compliance hotline.
We have also developed a comprehensive 
compliance program relating to the marketing and promotion of our products to, and interactions with, healthcare professionals that is aligned with The Code 
of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care 
Professionals published by the Advanced Medical Technology Association. We do not currently make corporate political contributions.
Read more about how we evaluate 
and select suppliers in Supply Chain 
Management.
 $0 
Monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with 
bribery and corruption or false 
marketing claims in  
2019 and 2020. 
HC-MS-510a.1
HC-MS-270a.1
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
15
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance INFORMATION SECURITY AND 
DATA PRIVACY
We are on a continual journey to transform our 
information systems and business processes to improve the overall customer experience and further enable operational excellence across the enterprise. In addition to upgrading our core business applications, we support and continue to invest in a technology foundation that is reliable, scalable, and secure.
Governance
The Information Services (IS) teams are responsible for ensuring technology investments are aligned with our strategic and cross-functional business objectives. In addition, these dedicated teams are responsible for developing and enforcing the policies, standards, and procedures related to the security and protection of Cooper’s technology assets and data. We have a Chief Information Officer for CVI and a Senior Vice President of Information Technology for CSI who reports to the CSI Chief Operating Officer, as well as a senior cross-functional steering committee to inform, oversee, and prioritize strategic programs.
The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors 
has oversight of information security and data privacy risk. The Audit Committee, which includes 100% independent Directors, receives quarterly security updates and a detailed presentation annually.We use an annual portfolio and demand management process to identify and prioritize technology investments and our multi-disciplinary intake process helps ensure new projects and proposed changes meet our architecture, security, and data privacy requirements prior to project initiation. Data protection impact assessments are conducted for high-risk data processing activities to identify and minimize risks and our comprehensive systems development lifecycle supports software validation requirements. As part of the acquisition due diligence 
process, newly acquired entities complete an information security and data privacy questionnaire, and our IS teams review existing policies and systems.
We also have policies that define our 
obligations and guidelines for acceptable use of technology assets, social media, data protection, data classification, records retention, data breach notification and reporting, information security, and incident response. For more information on our governance approach, please visit our website. Information Security 
Our risk management system adopts the Center for Internet Security (CIS) Controls framework in conjunction with the broader National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Privacy Controls framework, which both map to ISO27001, to document our security and data privacy controls and identify gaps that require remediation.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
16
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance We map our controls against this 
framework and assess, rate, map, and manage our initiatives according to progressive risks. Our initiatives and related investments are informed by vulnerability assessments and testing, external penetration testing, and external advisories on known threats. We also work with third-party cybersecurity experts to guide our defense response to threats and maintain cyber liability insurance. 
Data Privacy and Protection
We have established data privacy processes and controls for our systems that contain personal and sensitive data. We also conduct vendor assessments to review third-party applications and technologies that contain personal and sensitive data. We monitor technical and organizational measures to safeguard the data through appropriate user access management, lawfulness of processing, secure file transfers, and consent management. Lastly, we recognize that personal and sensitive data can be created and shared in unstructured file systems where no formal documentation exists. To address this risk, we have invested in technologies that can scan, report, and restrict access to files that otherwise would represent a risk.Training and Education
Cooper employees who are digitally wired are required to participate in an annual cybersecurity training, which includes topics such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the safe handling of sensitive personally identifiable information, and protected health information data. We also provide educational security bulletins and simulated phishing campaigns.Business Continuity
The final element of our approach includes recovery processes and procedures to timely restore systems or assets in the event of a cybersecurity incident. In addition to routine encrypted backups stored in the cloud, we have had a disaster recovery capability in place for several years and have continued to improve our documentation along with our expected recovery time for critical systems.WHERE WE’RE GOING NEXT 
Corporate Governance: During fiscal year 2021, 
Teresa Madden and Dr. Maria Rivas were elected to our Board of Directors. Moving forward, the Board will continue to seek to increase its representation of Directors with diverse perspectives and backgrounds.
ESG Oversight: Members of our ESG Project Team 
are working within their functions to implement ESG Action Plans and to identify and recommend areas for additional disclosure in future reports and on our website. Cooper will continue to engage with stakeholders to inform our ESG approach moving forward. We will also continue to raise awareness of our material ESG issues and approach with our employees and executives.
Ethical Business Practices: In 2021, we will roll 
out additional employee training on our Code of Conduct throughout our business units. We also plan to expand the functionality of our existing anonymous whistleblower hotline to enable and encourage employees to report any type of grievance. 
Information Security and Data Privacy: Though 
CIS Controls are more prescriptive than ISO27001 certification, no certification or external audits for CIS are currently available. As such, we have recently begun developing a roadmap to achieve ISO27001 certification in the future.
Read more on how we are moving forward in key 
ESG areas in each of the following sections of this report.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
17
Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People
A PURPOSE-DRIVEN, DYNAMIC TEAM
Our goal to improve lives starts with our employees. Our 
approximately 12,000 employees come from diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and regions. Working at Cooper means being part of a purpose-driven, dynamic team that cares about making the world a better place. 
What unites us as OneCooper across the business units is a collective 
drive to:
•
 Off
er products and services that positively impact people’s lives
•
 C
ollaborate with trusted healthcare professionals to elevate the 
standard of care
•
 L
everage strong global macro-trends that fuel long-term growth
•
 Uphold sus
tainable and conscientious business practicesIN THIS  
SECTION: 
Our Culture
Diversity and InclusionHealth, Safety, and  
Well-being
Training, Development, 
and Engagement
Where We’re Going Next
For details on our Code of 
Conduct, which is consistent with applicable labor laws and includes our commitment to maintaining safe and fair work conditions, read more in the Ethics sectionWe are ONECOOPER.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
18
Our People I am proud to tell 
others I work here 90%
GLOBAL EMPLOYEES: ~12,0006
0.5%  CooperCompanies
CooperSurgical15.5%
CooperVision84%
 <2
 2-5
 6-10
 11-15
 >15
  Puerto Rico
  Africa & Central Eurasia
  North America 
  Latin America
  APAC
  EMEA
BY REGION7
3% 15%
23%
9% 5%45%
BY TENURE5
30%
27%18%11%14%We are proud to be known as 
a place where employees trust the people they work with and have pride in what they do. Our culture is rooted in listening to and learning from each other. That’s what guides us so that employees feel accepted, appreciated, and able to achieve their full potential.”“
6 As of December 31, 2020
7 As of May 2020
Our employees are a key differentiator in our 
overall strategy. We invest in our workforce to meet current and future business objectives, always driving towards our goal of being a global employer of choice. Our cross-functional human capital management (HCM) strategy underpins our efforts to attract, grow and develop, retain, compensate, manage, and engage our employees. This people-focused approach is supported by an HCM information system, MyCooper, which is embedded into our human resources enterprise system and implemented across Cooper business units. 
When you join the 
company, you are made to feel welcome 91%In 2020, for the third consecutive year, Cooper was designated as a Great 
Place To Work Certified™ organization in the U.S. based on a detailed evaluation of workplace culture and the employee experience. U.S. employees rated the Company high on several cultural attributes, including:
In late 2020, Cooper, was also named one of Fortune’s Best Large Workplaces in Manufacturing and Production in the U.S. 
ALBERT G. WHITE III
President and Chief 
Executive Officer of CooperCompanies
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
19
Our People DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
We know that an inclusive work environment 
that truly appreciates the diversity of employees’ talents, experiences, and ideas leads to more innovation and progress. Our commitment to Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) starts at the top. Our VP of Global Human Resources and VP of Corporate Marketing, Communications & ESG share leadership accountability for our D&I strategy and programs. They report directly to our CEO and have frequent contact with our business units. Per its charter, the Organization and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors provides oversight and is actively engaged in our human capital management strategy, including our D&I strategy. We also provide a large-scale update on our D&I progress with the full Board of Directors annually, with periodic updates as needed.Our D&I strategy includes five key initiatives and in 2019 and 2020 our efforts included:
ELEVATE: Cooper’s President and CEO 
signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion Pledge, the world’s largest CEO-driven initiative to advance D&I within the workplace. We have pledged to promote D&I conversations, expand unconscious bias education, and share best practices and challenges. Read more online.
EDUCATE: We promote ongoing D&I 
communication and training to inform and educate our workforce. We recently developed an D&I toolkit and continue to develop unconscious bias training materials and webinars for employees across levels and geographies. As an example, we launched a ‘leading with inclusion’ training program for Director-level and above leaders, designed to develop capabilities in building inclusive workplaces, managing diverse teams, and serving diverse customers and business partners without unconscious bias. 100% of our Vice Presidents and above have completed this leadership training. 
ADVOCATE: Forming communities of 
advocates and allies helps advance our culture of inclusion, and Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are an integral component. Our ERGs help us drive change, reinforce and foster a sense of belonging, and present an opportunity for employees to gain critical skills and contribute unique insights on business objectives. Our ERGs have a variety 
of Executive sponsors from across Cooper’s business units and functions, which furthers integration into our business operations. “
GLEN SUNNERGREN
VP of Global Human Resources, CooperCompaniesValuing different experiences 
and perspectives makes us a better company and fostering a workplace that embraces every individual is an important part of our success.” 
ELEVATE EDUCATE ADVOCATE INTEGRATE EVALUATE
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
20
Our People In 2021, we launched our North American 
African Descent, Women’s Impact Network, and Global LGBTQ+ ERGs. To date, our ERGs have presented at career fairs at historically black colleges and universities and hosted several informational webinars. More than 500 employees from around the world attended an African Descent event with guest speaker Dr. Soyini Hawkins, who spoke about racial and ethnic healthcare disparities. In honor of World Health Day 2021, the African Descent ERG hosted a webinar on eye health featuring award-winning optometrist Dr. Sherrol A. Reynolds, OD, FAAO, and President of the National Optometric Association. The Women’s Impact Network hosted a virtual International Women’s Day event and an endometriosis webinar in partnership with CooperSurgical. In the United Kingdom, employees from our global offices tuned in to an interview with Abi Austen called “A Conversation about Living Life as a Transgendered Woman” and to an interview with Louise Halling, called “A Conversation about Living with a Disability.”INTEGRATE: We launched a Global Inclusion 
Council (GIC) comprised of seven leaders from across our business units, regions, and functions. These leaders serve as advocates and help us integrate D&I into the fabric of Cooper. Our President of CooperSurgical is the GIC executive sponsor. Our ERGs have a variety of Executive sponsors from across Cooper’s business units and functions that further integrates these groups into our business operations. We also have incorporated inclusion items into our performance reviews and engagement surveys.
EVALUATE: Ensuring we pay employees fairly 
and equitably is core to who we are and we released our Commitment to Fair and Equitable Pay in the U.S. in 2020. We annually complete 
various reviews of our programs to help ensure unconscious bias does not impact our reward decisions. For example, our 2020 base salary analysis for each of our divisions in the U.S. indicated, on average women receive base salaries on par with men in equivalent roles and ethnicity did not impact salary decisions. We had similar findings from our 2020 global stock 
award program gender bias analysis. 
In 2020, women managers and 
directors in our EMEA region were invited to virtual sessions focused on high-impact, confident communications. Seventy-five women, representing multiple functions and business units, participated in the pilot program’s five interactive sessions on becoming powerful and effective communicators. In 2021, we plan to offer this program again in EMEA as well as expand it to the U.S.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
21
Our People D&I WORKFORCE STATISTICS
We are proud that our percentage of women 
managers increased or remained level between 2019 and 2020. As an example of our D&I strategy in action, women represented 60% of VP and above new hires in 2020. We also continue to promote diverse talent and in 2020, 92% of mid-level promotions and 56% of first-level promotions were received by women.
8  As of May 2020
9  As of July 2019
10  As of December 2019
11  As of December 2018GENDER DIVERSITY (GLOBAL) 2020820199
Global Employees 48% unavailabe
First Line Managers / Supervisors 43% 42%
Directors / Senior Managers 35% 35%VPs and Above 25% 22%
RACIAL AND ETHNIC  
DIVERSITY (U.S.)202010201911
White 67% 69%
Asian 14% 13%
Hispanic or Latino 11% 10%
Black or African American 7% 7%
Two or More Races 1% 1%
American Indian or Alaska Native <1% <1%
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander <1% <1%
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
22
Our People PROMOTING EMPLOYEE HEALTH, 
SAFETY, AND WELL-BEING
Our culture of health, safety, and well-being 
helps our people and businesses thrive. We comply with applicable health and safety laws and regulations and help protect our employees through continuous improvement, education, engagement, and risk management.
CooperVision (CVI)’s and CooperSurgical 
(CSI)’s Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Global Policies formalize our commitment to high standards of EHS performance for employees, consultants, contract workers, and temporary staff worldwide.
Our EHS program includes a Risk Assessment 
Program and EHS management systems among others. These systems, which are reviewed with consultation from our employees and EHS committees, help centralize EHS documentation and provide managers and employees with the tools to prevent and manage risks. EHS representatives review EHS metrics at business unit meetings to further embed safety management across the Company. Our employee handbooks specify health and safety procedures, working condition policies, and labor relations, along with other topics.CVI works to educate, train, and motivate its people and partners to work in a healthy, safe way and to recognize dangerous conditions or hazards. CVI’s high-quality EHS training programs require an extensive annual general EHS safety training that covers the Company’s EHS policies and procedures, hazards employees may be exposed to on the job, and safe work practices for protecting themselves against these hazards. Additional detailed trainings on specific tasks are also provided for both employees and contractors. CVI conducts monthly EHS T alks to provide information on best practices and began offering EHS Academy courses in 2021.
We strive to reduce risks at the source and, 
where required, provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to employees. As an example, CVI provides hearing protection to employees working with loud machinery and conducts annual audiometric testing to monitor employees’ hearing over time and promote hearing conservation.
Cooper has not experienced a work-related 
fatality of an employee, temporary employee, or on-site contractor in more than five years. We are also proud that CVI’s Lost Time Case Rate (LTCR) saw a 22% reduction from 2019 to 2020. CVI represents 84% of Cooper employees and, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, its LTCR is below the average LTCR of Ophthalmic Goods companies, which was 1.2 in 2019.
We are also proud to report that our CVI 
Puerto Rico operations had zero observations in regulatory Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) and Fire Department inspections. In addition, Puerto Rico earned the Puerto Rico Manufacturer’s Association President’s Award for achieving a recordable injury and illness frequency rate from 50% to 74% below the average national frequency rate for its specific type of industrial operation. The Puerto Rico campus has received this recognition for eight consecutive years.
A CULTURE OF SAFETY 
CVI and CSI have open reporting 
cultures and require any unsafe conditions or potential hazards be reported immediately. At CVI, concerns raised generate a near miss report with a respective corrective action and preventive action. In addition to an event that may have resulted in an accident, the near miss report covers substandard actions and conditions. Near misses are owned by the local business unit, then the EHS team and Site Management review the near miss report, follow up on it, and communicate results to employees, reinforcing the culture of EHS across CVI. CSI is in process of building out its EHS team and will continue to integrate additional safety processes into its current operational framework. CSI will also be transitioning EHS initiatives from site-specific to global standardized initiatives.
12 Lost Time Case Rate = Lost time cases x 200,000 / total hours worked and does not include first aid cases or office-based employees. 200,000 hours in the 
formula represents the equivalent of 100 employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year, and provides the standard base for the incident rates.
LOST TIME CASE RATE12FY 
2020FY 2019
CooperVision LTCR 0.85 1.09
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
23
Our People Competitive Pay and Benefits
We regularly review our pay practices to 
confirm there are no significant pay disparities across gender or race. We conduct an annual market position benchmark to provide consistency in career path opportunities across our global organization. We have implemented robust processes for setting individual development plans and review employees’ performance and pay on an annual basis. In addition to these formal conversations, supervisors and employees are strongly encouraged to discuss job performance and goals on an informal, more frequent basis. We also offer comprehensive and continually evolving benefits to help employees balance their work lives and personal lives. RSU GRANT PROGRAM
The CEO and Executive team at 
Cooper reward exceptional individual performance that has a significant impact on business results through selective, annual restricted stock unit (RSU) grants. The program targets employees who would not traditionally be eligible for RSUs as part of their overall compensation package. This specialized form of rewards and recognition began in 2019 and in 2020 honored 105 employees globally with $1.6 million in grants.Cooper is a special place to work in 
that you get to see the direct impact your work has on the business. Being able to help automate and streamline processes to simplify and make our employees even more productive has made my job that much more rewarding.”
“
STEPHANIE KARCHER
System/Software Engineer 
II, CooperSurgicalIn Costa Rica, CVI received the Safety 
Company Award (silver) for our commitment to road safety in the country.
We conduct routine inspections to assess 
implementation of our management systems and training programs. CVI conducts internal audits to monitor proper use of PPE and has a formal global audit program requiring EHS compliance audits at least every three years. CVI typically performs three audits per year, though COVID-19 challenged its ability to accomplish these audits in 2020. CVI also conducts monthly inspections, and as an example, at CVI’s U.K. Manufacturing site completed over 60 internal health and safety inspections each month in 2020.
Employee Wellness
Wellness is an important part of who 
we are at Cooper. More than 40 Cooper sites around the world participate in our MyWellness program with 200+ employees volunteering their time and passions to serve as Wellness Champions globally. We offer on- and off-site fitness and wellness facilities and programs, an assortment of team-building activities, and have a robust offering of physical, social, emotional, and nutritional health resources.TRAINING, DEVELOPMENT,  
AND ENGAGEMENT
At Cooper, we empower employees to 
succeed and grow, reward great thinking and hard work, and engage employees.
T alent Development
Across our businesses, we offer job-specific training, licenses, certifications, mentoring, rotational assignments, and other opportunities to equip employees with the tools needed to achieve long-term success. Our employee-driven approach leverages the 70 (experiential) - 20 (coaching/mentoring) - 10 (training/education) development model.
Managers work closely with employees to 
define and achieve career goals, identify future opportunities, and understand advancement steps. We partner with educational institutions to help structure and deliver leadership development programs throughout the organization. In 2019, 46 employees completed the two-part leadership development program, and an additional 40 employees completed one of two sessions. Our 2020 programs were put on hold due to COVID-19 but have resumed in the back half of 2021. CSI continues to offer numerous virtual leadership development programing, with sessions often at maximum capacity.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
24
Our People % of employees who agree that they are 
provided with development opportunities
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
Disagree Neutral Strongly Agree79% 
77% 18% 
17% % of employees who agree 
that their job has value6% 3% Employees in the United States who work a minimum of 30 hours per week 
are eligible for benefits including: medical, dental, vision, life/supplemental life, accidental death, and pet insurance; paid time off; fertility assistance; short- and long-term disability; flexible spending accounts; 401(k) plans; employee stock purchase plans; an Employee Assistance Program; tuition assistance; and a comprehensive wellness program. Global employees are eligible for similar benefits as appropriate by region. U.S. employees and their immediate family members are eligible for free CooperVision contact lenses; employees globally are eligible for CooperVision contact lenses either at no cost or at a nominal fee, depending on region. Read more online
. 
% of surveyed employees who feel 
comfortable to be themselves at work
75% 16% 9% 
80% 
of surveyed employees 
strongly agree that 
people care about them  
at work
85% 
of surveyed employees 
are satisfied with their 
job at CooperEmployee FeedbackEngagement
We conduct regular formal and informal surveys to proactively seek out employee feedback, ideas, and collect data on the employee experience. We encourage candid participation, and these insights help us develop targeted strategies to enhance our workplace and culture. Our 2020 global engagement surveys found the below results and we will again survey employees in 2021 using the Great Place To Work and/or Gallup methodology at Cooper locations.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
25
Our People WHERE WE’RE GOING NEXT
Diversity and Inclusion: In 2021 and beyond we plan 
to support and grow our ERGs, implement regional D&I action plans, broaden our workforce education efforts on a global basis, require diverse candidate slates for Director-level positions and above. We are also exploring professional associations and external groups to learn and exchange best practices.
Promoting Employee Health, Safety, and Well-being: 
We will continue our journey: further embedding behavioral safety at facilities globally, increasing behavioral safety studies, and continuing to improve our internal EHS management systems. We will continue to enhance our ergonomics program to better link occupational health to local needs. CSI will also be transitioning EHS initiatives from site-specific to global standardized initiatives to increase transparency and engagement. For our Wellness programs, we will continue to expand our mobile capabilities to allow for broader participation of both wired and non-wired employees.
Training, Development, and Engagement: In 2021, we will 
offer online goal setting and development plans, and use trend analytics to enhance recruiting efficiency. We are also tracking additional development metrics and reviewing options to further improve our leadership essentials training and executive development and coaching programs. In fiscal year 2022, we plan to implement a centralized training and development library and offer additional self-paced training options globally.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
26
Our People Our Products 
IN THIS  
SECTION: 
Product Quality and 
Patient Safety
Supply Chain 
Management
Innovation and R&DCreating Lasting Change 
in Eye Health
Supporting Women’s 
Health
Where We’re Going NextWe make products with purpose.
PRODUCT QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY 
Our materiality assessment found that product quality and patient safety is a high-priority ESG 
topic. Our high-quality, innovative products and services that support people at every stage of life also contribute to United Nations Sustainable Development Goal #3, Good Health and Well-being. We develop life-changing solutions to address both common needs and complex health challenges. In everything we do – from research and development to the manufacturing and distribution of our products – product quality, patient safety, and expanding access are our primary considerations.
Regulatory Assurance 
Most of our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States and other regulatory bodies abroad. We also maintain compliance to Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia, Brazil’s Agencia Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria, Health Canada, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare, and the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency. We maintain compliance with existing regulations and work to stay abreast of new and evolving regulations and standards. In many countries, we participate on regulatory standards boards.
We assess the safety of our products in rigorous clinical and nonclinical trials prior to seeking 
regulatory approval. In addition to FDA regulatory requirements, CooperVision (CVI) maintains ISO 13485 certification and CE mark
13 approvals for its products. CooperSurgical (CSI) maintains ISO 
13485 certification for medical devices and ISO 15189 certification for its genomics laboratories. To maintain these quality benchmarks, the Company is subjected to rigorous biannual reassessment audits of the level of compliance and effectiveness of its quality management systems.
13 A CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain standards and compliance with applicable European medical device requirements.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
27
Our Products Quality Management Process
Our products are widely tested before they 
are approved for commercialization. Cooper’s Global Quality Policy governs our approach to the ongoing safety and efficacy of our products in aspects of their design, manufacture, and delivery based on compliance with applicable regulations and standards as well as our own internal quality controls.
We monitor and maintain compliance at every 
stage of a product’s lifecycle by routinely auditing our research, manufacturing, and distribution sites. In addition, we assess our quality management system performance against pre-determined internal audit schedules to assess its effectiveness, help ensure the system follows established requirements, and to provide another level of due diligence.
Once a product is approved for distribution, 
we monitor the product and manufacturing process to support ongoing compliance and continual improvement, working closely with regulatory authorities. We also employ risk management principles to help ensure that products manufactured and delivered meet established quality attributes, customer needs, and regulatory requirements, and to mitigate risks and identify opportunities for continuous improvement. In addition, we maintain a Chemwatch chemical safety and safety data sheet management system to determine potential health impacts of products.
Communicating Product Information
The contents of our product labeling include 
details on each product, contraindications, possible side effects, and, if appropriate, how to avoid potential problems. The inserts, which are also available on our website, indicate if a product or medical device is intended for one-time use or for use on a single patient during a single procedure.
We include contact details on our CVI and CSI websites for patients, caregivers, and health professionals to report adverse experiences or product concerns. In the event of a product recall, we have extensive procedures in place to inform patients, healthcare providers, and regulatory authorities, including sending advisory notifications and providing information online.
Recall information in response 
to SASB Code HC-MS-250a.1 is 
provided in our Index
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
We conduct business with a wide range of suppliers globally, from suppliers of raw materials and other critical components for our products to providers of office equipment. Our Procurement and Sourcing teams are tasked with responsible procurement, risk mitigation, and the continuity of supply to our operations globally.
Medical device and pharmaceutical regulations 
require thorough approval processes for new vendors, materials, and changes, and we build long-term partnerships with strategic suppliers, supported by supply agreements and performance reviews. Through change control processes, we formally assess changes that may affect product performance, quality, or safety. We work with suppliers to qualify new materials, add manufacturing capacity, improve quality and sustainability, and maintain or reduce costs.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
28
Our Products Supplier Code Of Conduct
CVI expects suppliers to abide by 
the CooperVision Supplier Code of Conduct. CVI’s supplier code sets clear expectations for business integrity, labor practices, employee health and safety, and environmental management. 
Topics include, but are not limited to, safe 
and healthy working conditions; our strict, no-tolerance policy against child and forced labor (anti-slavery); wages, benefits and hours; non-discrimination; freedom of association; ethics including gift policy and avoiding/declaring conflict of interests; anti-corruption; compliance with relevant customs regulations; and our strict, no-tolerance policy on the use of conflict minerals.
CSI is rolling out Supplier Terms and 
Conditions, which set expectations requiring suppliers to maintain full compliance with the laws, rules, and regulations of their respective countries and operating locations and compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws. The terms also prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin.
POLICIES AND STATEMENTS
California Transparency in Supply 
Chains Act of 2010 
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 United 
Kingdom Statement 
CooperVision Supplier Code of 
Conduct
Selecting and Monitoring Suppliers
HC-MS-430a.1 
We use a risk-based assessment to evaluate, 
verify, and select suppliers. Suppliers in countries Cooper has designated as high-risk from an FCPA (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) perspective are run through FTI Comply, a third-party due diligence solution. FTI Comply aligns with TRACE International and evaluates risk given an automated risk matrix. Suppliers new to us through acquisition are run through the FTI Comply system in the first 100 days and we regularly review our suppliers using this tool during onboarding and renewals. 
Our supplier qualification process may also 
include supplier questionnaires or audits of supplier facilities, which may be completed by Cooper or a third-party. High-risk suppliers with acceptable performance are audited at least once every three years and medium-risk suppliers with acceptable performance are audited at least once every five years. We also perform rigorous quality control on materials received from suppliers that go into our products. Read more about our rigorous quality control processes.Critical Materials
HC-MS-430a.3
For each critical material within its supply chain, CVI assesses the potential risk of disruption to supply, sets inventory targets, and develops risk mitigation plans. Critical material suppliers are subject to regularly scheduled internal audits and most critical materials are, where possible, multi-sourced.
CooperCompanies seeks to understand 
the origin of the materials that go into our products, and is committed to compliance with conflict minerals requirements, supplier due diligence, and ongoing supply chain evaluation. We conduct a detailed conflict minerals risk analysis across our supply chain annually and select suppliers are required to complete conflict minerals reporting templates. Read more about our approach in our Conflict Minerals report.Maintaining Traceability
 HC-MS-430a.3 
To maintain traceability of our products within the distribution chain, we apply track and trace procedures that comply with global regulatory requirements. These track and trace procedures monitor end-to-end traceability and identification through the stages of manufacturing and distribution. We use Unique Device Identifiers (UDIs) on required medical device packaging. UDIs incorporate human- and machine-readable identification that provides product tracing.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
29
Our Products INNOVATION AND R&D 
Cooper spearheads scientific and technological 
breakthroughs through advanced research and development (R&D). Our R&D efforts are focused on improving existing products and developing new ones to solve customer and patient challenges and meet the world’s future healthcare needs.
Product development and clinical research 
within CVI is supported by internal and external specialists in lens design, formulation science, polymer chemistry, clinical trials, microbiology, and biochemistry. R&D activities primarily include programs to develop new contact lens designs and manufacturing technology, along with improving formulations and existing products.
CSI conducts R&D in-house and has consulting 
agreements with external specialists to identify products and new technologies from disposable products to diagnostic tests to sophisticated instruments and equipment. R&D activities include the design and improvement of surgical procedure devices, the advancement and expansion of our portfolio of assisted reproductive technology products, genetic testing, as well as products within the general OB/GYN offerings.
R&D HIGHLIGHTS142020
Number of Employees Working in 
R&D200
Number of R&D Sites 3
R&D Investment $93.3M
New Product Launches 10
Product Extensions 215
At both businesses, we incorporate feedback 
from our customers into the ongoing development and improvement of new and existing products. Ethical Research 
We are dedicated to research practices that are transparent, responsible, and compliant with applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines.
Use of Animals in Research
We are committed to the ethical and responsible treatment of animals used in the discovery and development of our products. Our use of animal testing is limited to meeting regulatory and legal requirements and only conducted when non-animal testing is not yet a scientifically valid and available option. The Company does not conduct any testing on primates.
Use of Stem Cells in Research We do not perform or contract for any research using human stem cells, nor develop or produce any technologies or products approved for scientific research on human stem cells. Cooper also does not participate in or fund any external studies that use human stem cells or fetal tissue or cell lines.
14 CooperCompanies 2020 10-K
15 U.S. FDA approval for MiSight® 1 day was received in November 2019 and U.S. commercial launch occurred in 2020
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
30
Our Products CREATING SUSTAINABLE AND LASTING CHANGE  
IN EYE HEALTH
CooperVision (CVI) has a long history of addressing widespread refractive 
issues such as myopia, astigmatism, and presbyopia. We are taking on greater challenges such as digital eye fatigue and childhood myopia. Currently an estimated one billion people globally live with some type of vision loss, 90% of which is preventable or treatable
19. Vision loss can affect health and well-
being at any age, making daily activities more difficult. It can also have more far-ranging consequences on school and job performance.
CVI also works to provide access to its products, which are available in more 
than 100 countries. CVI has representation on multiple Global Standards Committees, Ministries of Health working groups, and industry forums to continue to promote patient access to products with the latest technology.
Advancing the Field of Ocular Science
CVI is dedicated to raising the bar on product excellence and creating the next generation of contact lenses. One way we do this is through our annual Science and Technology Award Program, which supports partnerships with recipients and CVI scientists to explore new dimensions in vision care, with the goal of translating innovative ideas into practical solutions.
Since its inception in 2014, the program has investigated areas such as 
ocular surface health, contact lens discomfort, contact lens functionality, and retinal response to optical defocus. In 2020, the program focused on novel research concepts to address myopia and presbyopia. Read about how Cooper achieves more through Partnerships.
16  Holden BA, Fricke TR, Wilson DA, Jong M, Naidoo KS, Sankaridurg P, Wong TY, Naduvilath TJ, Resnikoff S. Global Prevalence of Myopia and High 
Myopia and Temporal Trends from 2000 through 2050. Ophthalmology. 2016 May;123(5):1036-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2016.01.006. Epub 2016 Feb 11. PMID: 26875007.
17  Chamberlain P, et al. A 3-year randomized clinical trial of MiSight® 1 day lenses for myopia control. Optom Vis Sci. 2019;96(8):556–567. 
18  Indic ations for use: MiSight® 1 day (omafilcon A) soft (hydrophilic) contact lenses for daily wear are indicated for the correction of myopic 
ametropia and for slowing the progression of myopia in children with non-diseased eyes, who at the initiation of treatment are 8-12 years of age and have a refraction of -0.75 to -4.00 diopters (spherical equivalent) with ≤ 0.75 diopters of astigmatism. The lens is to be discarded after each removal.  
19  The Lanc et Global Health Commission on Global Eye Health: vision beyond 2020 
Collaborating with experts and 
innovators is critical to delivering the quality and choice patients and providers are looking for. Since launching the Science and Technology Awards in 2014, transformative collaborations have emerged, and we have high expectations for new partnerships this year.” “
FRANCIS ERARD
Vice President of 
Research & Development, CooperVision
MANAGING MYOPIA AT A YOUNG AGE
Myopia, commonly known as near-sightedness, is projected to affect the 
vision of approximately five billion people, or half the global population, by 2050
16. In addition to vision impairment, myopic progression has been 
linked to sight-threatening conditions later in life such as cataracts, retinal detachment, glaucoma, and myopic maculopathy.
For more than a decade, CVI has been at the forefront of tackling myopia 
progression and offers several products in their myopia management programs. CVI’s featured product MiSight® 1 day contact lens, which has been available for many years globally, slows the progression of myopia when initially prescribed for children 8-12 years of age by up to 59% over three years
17, 18. In 2020, following approval by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration, CVI launched MiSight® 1 day contact lens in the United States. The MiSight® 1 day lens was also awarded a 2020 Popular Science “Best of What’s New Award” in the health category. As of May 2021, MiSight® 1 day is available in 31 countries around the world.SPOTLIGHT
Several years from now, I believe we will look back at late 2020 as 
an inflection point in the global myopia management movement. Partnering with the optometry, ophthalmology, and pediatric health communities, we have a real opportunity to change the lives of countless children in the decades ahead.”“
DAN MCBRIDE
Chief Operating Officer, CooperCompanies and President of CooperVision
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
31
Our Products ADVANCING CARE FOR HEALTHY WOMEN, BABIES, AND FAMILIES
For more than 30 years, CooperSurgical has partnered with healthcare professionals by providing 
innovative, practice-enhancing tools, technologies, and services, spanning contraception, fertility, and preventative and therapeutic women’s healthcare. These offerings help healthcare professionals advance the standards of care wherever they occur – in hospitals, surgical centers, medical offices, and fertility clinics.
Half of the world population is 
women and their health is vital to our society. Women experience unique gynecological health issues and conditions, and often suffer in silence. For many individuals and couples, the dream of a family seems out of reach. CSI is focused on driving innovation and adoption of technologies that improve the quality of care for those facing these challenges – impacting areas such as infertility, pregnancy, and abnormal uterine bleeding. Partnering with healthcare providers around the world we have the capability to positively impact the lives of women and families.”“
HOLLY SHEFFIELD        
President of 
CooperSurgicalChanging Fertility for  
Generations to Come
Almost 200 million individuals are 
challenged with infertility globally20 
and the number of those seeking care continues to increase. CSI believes that every individual has the right to a family. Innovations in assisted reproductive technology play a critical role in empowering individuals to achieve their unique pathway to a family. CSI continues to invest in advancements across the fertility journey including genomics, embryology, and cryopreservation. CSI’s innovative genetic testing technology PGT ai provides the utmost confidence in selecting the highest quality embryo for transplant, resulting in a greater number of positive outcomes for patients.  For more information, please visit our website.
20  https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/infertility 
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
32
Our Products Empowering Office-Based Care
Delivery of care in the office setting has been 
demonstrated to be beneficial to patients, pro -
viders and the healthcare system, lowering cost and impr
oving care. CSI believes that improve -
ments in office care is pivotal to addressing ac
cess disparities and outcome inequalities. 
As gynecological office-based procedures con -
tinue to increase at a rapid pace, CSI is provid-
ing innovative technologies previously used in hospit
als. Products such as Endosee® Advance, 
and Mara™ Water Vapor Ablation System can 
diagnosis and treat abnormal uterine bleeding each within minutes during a patient visit.
Advancing Hospital Care
Gynecologic and obstetrical care are key offerings by hospitals globally. CSI believes there are significant advances to be made in surgical outcomes for women and maternal fetal health. Providing innovative, quality products utilized by surgeons in gynecological surgeries as well as labor and delivery, continues to be a priority for CSI. CSI is the product leader in devices for uterine manipulation, enabling the shift towards minimally invasive surgical procedures.
Fetal Pillow®, acquired in 2021, is a medical 
device that allows for the elevation of the fetal head when the mother requires a c-section, decreasing the need for maternal blood transfusion and length of stay.WHERE WE’RE GOING NEXT:
Innovation and R&D: Our pipeline has never been stronger as we aim to strengthen our vision and surgical portfolios and continue to focus on priority patient and consumer needs where our medical technology can make a meaningful impact.
Creating Sustainable and Lasting 
Change in Eye Health: CVI today offers more than 23 million SKUs, but is not slowing down. CVI is forging new frontiers in myopia management, comfort, and performance. Breakthrough technologies in these focused areas allow for controlling high myopia, reducing contact lens drop outs, and providing options for people to have more control over their vision choices throughout their lifetime.
Advancing Care for Healthy Women, 
Babies, and Families: CSI is developing next-generation products and services to assist in gynecological and obstetrical care by improving assessment, time to diagnosis, and therapeutic outcomes. Within assisted reproductive technology, our pipeline is focused on speed to pregnancy, laboratory efficacy, safety, and security.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Planet Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
33
Our Products Our Planet
IN THIS  
SECTION: 
Our Approach
Energy and Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions
Green BuildingsResource ConservationWhere We’re Going NextProtecting our planet and preserving resources is 
part of our commitment to improving lives.
OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 
Environmental sustainability is core to Cooper’s business strategy. We believe 
a brighter future depends on it and we work hard to ensure our employees, customers, and stakeholders can take pride in seeing our commitment in practice. Through managing emissions, increasing our use of renewable energy, conserving resources, and embedding sustainability into our products, our operational focus is on the responsible use of the planet’s natural resources. We continue to expand our environmental sustainability measures globally and work towards standardization across sites.
Governance
Environmental sustainability at Cooper is supported by business and regional 
leaders across CooperVision (CVI) and CooperSurgical (CSI). Read more in Governance, Ethics, and Compliance.
The CVI Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Global Policy highlights CVI’s 
commitment to protecting the planet, including compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, partnering with community leaders, customers and suppliers, factoring sustainability into business decisions, and educating and engaging employees in sustainable business operations.
In 2021, CSI developed its first Global Environmental Policy. Modeled closely after 
CVI’s EHS policy, it provides a consistent enterprise-wide approach and, like CVI’s, is applicable to employees, consultants, contract workers, and temporary staff worldwide. 
ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Research shows that the healthcare sectors of the United States, Australia, Canada, and England combined emit approximately 2% of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
21. Cooper is managing GHG emissions across our businesses through a 
variety of means including comprehensive measurement of our GHG footprint, energy efficiency and clean energy upgrades at our manufacturing and distribution centers, education on sustainable commuting options, and increased employee awareness and training.
In 2020, we initiated a project measuring Cooper’s GHG emissions footprint to 
establish an accurate baseline, inform Cooper’s sustainability priorities, and highlight opportunities for meaningful emissions reductions. 
21 https://www.c2es.org/content/international-emissions/ 
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
34
Our Planet Working with an external consultant and following 
the GHG Protocol, the most widely used GHG accounting standard, we began by measuring our Scope 2
22 footprint – emissions from the 
consumption of purchased electricity – for the Company’s owned and leased global sites. 
We then expanded our measurement process to 
include Scope 1 emissions – direct emissions that occur from sources we control such as on-site equipment and company-owned vehicles
23. As of 
June 2021, our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions profile has been determined for calendar years 2019 and 2020. 
The next step on our GHG journey is to expand 
measurement to Scope 3 emissions, indirect emissions that come from sources including employee travel and commuting, our supply chain, and the use of our products. Assessing Scope 3 emissions across our value chain is a complex process and we expect this process to take time.
Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Explained
Cooper’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions footprint increased from calendar year 2019 to calendar year 2020 despite decreased energy demand across the company primarily due to lower levels of operational activity during the COVID-19 pandemic. The 2020 increase in Cooper’s GHG emissions was largely due to external factors affecting CVI Puerto Rico. In January 2020, Puerto Rico experienced a 6.4 magnitude earthquake that left two-thirds of residents without power. It also damaged two of the island’s natural gas-fired power plants and since that time has left the island relying on electricity generated from significantly higher emission sources.
CVI Puerto Rico was quick to respond in early 2020, 
taking action to support affected employees and the local community, and safely restore operations. Additionally, planning had previously been initiated to implement a two-pronged energy resiliency program for CVI Puerto Rico, which is now in the final stages of implementation. This included commissioning the construction of a natural gas-powered Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plant and company-controlled microgrid, which are expected to begin operations in 2022. 
CVI Puerto Rico is also conducting a feasibility 
analysis to understand renewable energy options that can potentially support the site’s electricity needs.
Looking ahead Cooper is also planning to conduct 
a more comprehensive feasibility analysis at other global facilities to evaluate renewable energy sourcing options and energy efficiency opportunities.Energy and Emissions KPIs 2019-2020
2020 2019
Natural gas usage (primary source of Cooper’s 
Scope 1 emissions) cubic meters9,969,231 9,995,375
Electricity usage (primary source of Cooper’s Scope 2 emissions) kilowatt hours204,075,804 215,277,925
Scope 1 GHGs tCO2e* 29,104 29,747
Scope 2 GHGs (location-based) tCO2e 95,274 53,721
Scope 2 GHGs (market-based**) tCO2e 78,796 33,442
Scope 1 + 2 GHGs (location-based) tCO2e 124,378 83,468
Scope 1 + 2 GHGs (market-based**) tCO2e 107,904 63,189
* Tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e)
**Market-based = Scope 2 location-based emissions net of renewable energy indirectly utilized via purchasing Renewable Energy Certificates
22 The GHG Protocol categorizes emissions into three broad scopes:
-
 Sc
ope 1: Direct GHG emissions.
-
 Sc
ope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat, or steam.
-
 Sc
ope 3: Other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the reporting entity, electricity-related activities (e.g., T&D losses) not covered in Scope 2, outsourced activities, waste disposal, etc.
23 We initiated our GHG measurement project with Scope 2 due to preliminary research that showed our Scope 2 emissions would be higher than Scope 1 emissions. This is due to higher levels of electricity reliance by our largest global facilities relative to fossil fuel usage on site.
Above: A rendering of CVI Puerto Rico’s Combined Heat and Power plant
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
35
Our Planet “
LEED® AND BREEAM® CERTIFICATIONS 
We have constructed and retrofitted several of our largest facilities to align to 
internationally recognized green building standards, such as LEED® and BREEAM®.
•
 BREE
AM® Excellent, Southampton, United Kingdom (2017)
•
 LEED® Silv
er, Alajuela, Costa Rica (CVI: 2018, 2021)
•
 LEED®, M
adrid, Spain (2019)
•
 LEED® Silv
er, Juana Díaz, Puerto Rico (2020)
•
 C
urrently pursuing LEED® certification: Scottsville and West Henrietta, NY; 
Alajuela, Costa Rica (CVI facility expansion project and CSI facility)Achieving LEED certification 
is more than implementing sustainable practices. It represents a commitment to making the world a better place and influencing others to do better.”
24 Includes CSI Paragard, CVI Victor corporate office, CVI Scottsville manufacturing, CVI West Henrietta distribution
25 https://www.worldfuturecouncil.org/100-renewable-energy-costa-rica/#:~:text=Costa%20Rica%20is%20already%20a,to%20almost%20all%20the%20population
26 https://coopervision.com/our-company/news-center/press-release/coopervision-costa-rica-manufacturing-plant-earns-prestigiousAs both CVI and CSI continue to expand 
operations and transfer key manufacturing lines to Costa Rica from other global locations, Cooper’s Scope 2 GHG footprint will benefit from the country’s energy policy ambitions to achieve 100% renewable electricity. Roughly, 95-98% of the country’s electricity has come from renewable sources since 2014
25.Renewable Energy
Across our businesses, we are making efforts to transition to cleaner energy sources. In New York state, Cooper has transitioned all key facilities
24 in the state 
to 100% sourced renewable electricity via Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). Additionally, all CVI sites in the United Kingdom source 100% renewable electricity via RECs. 
MAHESH RAMANUJAM
President and CEO, U.S. Green 
Building Council26GREEN BUILDINGS
Sustainable construction and retrofits to our 
sites reduce impacts while demonstrating to employees and communities we share their desire for a more sustainable world. Highlights of our commitment to sustainable buildings include:
•
 W
e conduct environmental, health, and 
safety project evaluations for new – or 
modifications to – facilities, equipment, or utilities at most CVI sites.
•
 C
VI’s United Kingdom manufacturing, 
packaging, and distribution sites, our Hungary manufacturing site, and Belgium distribution center sent zero waste to landfill in 2020.
•
 C
VI’s Mountpark, United Kingdom 
distribution hub runs entirely on biomass power via RECs.
•
 Our Sc
ottsville, NY, Puerto Rico, and CVI 
and CSI Costa Rica sites have implemented LED lighting and introduced variable-speed motors for reduced power consumption.
•
 Ener
gy-efficient LED lighting covers 100% 
of CVI’s Costa Rica manufacturing site and 97% of CVI’s West Henrietta, NY, distribution site. 
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
36
Our Planet CREATING THE FIRST  
NET PLASTIC NEUTRAL CONTACT LENS 
Building on our commitment to 
sustainability, in March 2021, Cooper announced its partnership with Plastic Bank to create the first net plastic neutral contact lens.
Plastic Bank, a social enterprise building 
ethical recycling ecosystems in coastal communities, enables individuals to receive income by collecting ocean-bound plastic waste
27. For every box 
of clariti® 1 day distributed in the United States, Cooper will purchase a credit from Plastic Bank to collect and convert into reusable feedstock the equivalent amount of plastic, factoring in the entire product from the lens and blister to the inks, adhesive and laminates embedded within the packaging. Our U.S. launch is just the beginning, and we intend to expand this model to other countries and products in the future.RESOURCE CONSERVATION 
Research shows customers are increasingly 
concerned about the environmental impacts of the products they purchase. From our operations to the materials that make up our products and packaging, we continue to innovate and seek out new ways to reduce our use of the planet’s natural resources.
Waste
While a global approach to waste reduction is under development at Cooper, across our business units we focus on materials reduction, recycling, and reuse. From designing our products for easy recyclability to creating the first net plastic neutral contact lens, we continue to look for opportunities for sustainability across the entire product lifecycle.
For example, across CVI manufacturing sites 
in Hungary, Costa Rica, and Puerto Rico more than 99% of plastic components generated in manufacturing processes are recycled and then repurposed by outside manufacturers to make things from traffic safety cones to plastic containers. CVI is also continuously managing waste generated during production, warehouse, distribution, and secondary packaging processes and in 2020, more than 95% of materials were recycled (cardboard, wood, paper, and oil). 
Water
Water is a vital resource — for our businesses 
and for the communities where we live and work. Across our operations we are reducing overall usage, increasing reuse of manufacturing process water, and collecting rainwater for use in lavatories and climate control systems. For example, at our CVI Puerto Rico and Costa Rica manufacturing facilities there is a process water reuse program that saves 135 million liters annually, representing a 35% reduction in demand for well- and city-provided water. Plastic currently plays a critical 
role in the hygienic delivery and sterile protection of our contact lenses, and how that plastic is managed is important to us. The commitment to making clariti® 1 day net plastic neutral is the next step in CooperVision’s sustainability journey — and provides a unique opportunity for eyecare professionals to offer even more value to their patients.”
27  Plastic Bank FAQ; Ocean-bound is defined as plastic waste collected within 50km of waterways or coastal areas. “
MELISSA KIEWE 
Vice President 
of Marketing, Americas
SPOTLIGHT
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
37
Our Planet ENVIRONMENTAL 
ACHIEVEMENTS IN PUERTO RICO 
This year, CooperVision Puerto Rico, one of 
our largest operations globally, continued to build on its legacy of environmental stewardship, achieving the globally recognized LEED® Silver green building certification. The 540,000-square-foot site located in Juana Díaz has received numerous recognitions and awards for its sustainability initiatives, standing out in LEED® categories for energy performance, indoor environmental quality, and location and transportation.
The site’s environmental initiatives continue 
to extend beyond those considered by LEED®. For example, through the development of a combined heat and power facility, the site is moving towards more energy efficient, lower emitting, and lower cost electricity sources.
The site also invests in empowering the local 
community. This year, a $25,000 grant to STEM nonprofit EcoExploratorio, Inc. is supporting the creation of a Scientific Room of Marine Life at the Puerto Rico Science Museum to educate visitors and local students on the importance of preserving and protecting Puerto Rico’s rich and diverse marine life.WHERE WE’RE GOING NEXT
Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability: We recognize that as our business continues to grow, there will be opportunities to strengthen and further embed our approach to environmental sustainability in order to help mitigate our environmental impact. In the years to come, we will look to develop a global Environmental, Health, and Safety policy for CooperCompanies including all business units, further expand our measurement and disclosure of environmental key performance indicators, and continue to assess environmental management at our facilities against leading global standards. 
Energy and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions: We will work towards developing our Scope 3 GHG footprint calculation and look to expand our portfolio of internationally recognized green-building sites. As an example, CooperSurgical is actively pursuing solar panels at its America’s sites, evaluating battery backups in lieu of generators, and plans to apply green building and sustainability best practices implemented at its Costa Rica facility to other locations.
SPOTLIGHT
Our focus on manufacturing facilities—reducing, reusing, conserving, and 
recycling—provides the opportunity to make the greatest impact. We are proud to be an industry leader in this area.”“
ROLANDO TORRES
Executive Vice President, 
Global Manufacturing Operations, CooperVision
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Partnerships Data and Performance 
38
Our Planet In 2020, CVI launched a new peer-to-peer virtual learning series through the ECP 
ViewpointsSM program, which will continue throughout 2021. Since 2016, we 
hav
e also hosted our Best Practices initiative to honor peer-selected optometric 
practices from across the United States that advance the profession through innovation, industry leadership, and exceptional patient experience.
 
To date, CVI 
has honored 60 optometric practices at its annual Best Practices Summit, where attendees share innovative practices and hear from other thought leaders.
Working in Partnership 
We work with partners, such as those below, to expand access to high-quality eye care and strengthen the skills of eye care professionals. Read more about these and other partners on our website.
Our Partnerships
IN THIS  
SECTION: 
Advancing the 
Industry
Global ImpactWhere We’re Going 
Next
Read more about how we supported communities during COVID-19We collaborate with nonprofits, educators, and 
industry organizations to accelerate the industries we work in and address unmet healthcare needs.
ADVANCING THE INDUSTRY
Building the Skills of Eye Care Professionals Worldwide
CooperVision (CVI) seeks to help eye care professionals stay up to date 
with the rapid advances in eye care treatment and to strengthen the services they offer to their patients. CVI supports eye health clinics and practices with world-class training at its centers of excellence in multiple countries. In 2020, CVI hosted in-person and online training for over 42,000 educators, students, industry personnel, and practitioners. We also host a diverse range of free online courses and workshops for eye care practitioners and medical professionals and provide practical guidance and clinical resources on our website
 . 
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet 
39
Data and Performance Our PartnershipsThrough a global partnership, CVI is working 
with the World Council of Optometry to raise awareness of myopia progression and encourage optometrists to embrace a standard of care to manage the condition. The initiative, which uses evidenced-based approaches without bias toward any particular treatment methodologies, seeks to establish multi-lingual myopia management resources and programming. Progress has certainly been made in this effort with the World Council of Optometry recently approving a resolution advising optometrists to incorporate myopia management as standard of care in their facilities. In early 2021, CVI announced a five-year commitment to support the American Academy of Ophthalmology’s efforts to protect children from high myopia. The Academy-guided endeavor seeks to raise awareness of the increasing number of children at risk of this common eye condition and the effectiveness of new interventions to slow it. 
CVI support to the American Academy of 
Optometry includes sponsorship of activities to increase clinical contact lens awareness through education and research. Additionally, we provide an educational grant to the Academy’s Foundation to support optometric research and education, including staff training. 
CVI supports the American Optometric 
Association (AOA) through a year-round platform that delivers contact lens education to eye care professionals and AOA staff. Additionally, we support Optometry Cares: The AOA Foundation, which helps to fund optometrists impacted by natural disasters.
Educating Future Optometrists 
Educating future optometrists about myopia management is a critical component of our category growth plan. We partnered pre-launch with the faculty at six schools and colleges to help with our MiSight® 1 day ECP certification program. They participated in content development, discussion boards, and educational webinar sessions. Since launch, the six schools have certified faculty and are eligible to prescribe MiSight® 1 day. The contact lens and cornea residents were registered to certify last fall, and this spring, we invited third and fourth year students to certify prior to graduation. We also added MiSight® 1 day to the Adopt-A-Patient program, which provides an annual supply of product at no cost to children in need.
These opportunities will continue each year 
moving forward, making sure that there is robust support in the schools and colleges to learn about and prescribe the Brilliant Futures Myopia Management Program. We are also piloting a myopia immersion program this summer to partner rising second year students with MiSight® 1 day prescribers in-office to provide early exposure to the category. The three partner schools are the University of Houston College of Optometry, the Illinois College of Optometry, and the University of California Berkeley College of Optometry. 
CooperSurgical Center of Excellence
CooperSurgical (CSI) hosted 65 educational webinars in 2020 to provide practitioners with new skills and knowledge. More than 15,000 participants joined from 129 countries, with another 23,000 accessing materials through CSI’s library. Of viewers who participated, 96% found the webinars to be relevant to their day-to-day work.
CSI also provides virtual and hands-on courses 
through its Center of Excellence-based educational programs. In 2020, more than 9,000 people participated in 110 courses, with an additional 17,000 accessing library materials. The participants attended our embryology labs based in the U.S., Russia, Japan, Belgium, India, and Denmark.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet 
40
Data and Performance Our PartnershipsENHANCING VISION CARE INCLUSION WITH SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
Across the world, individuals with intellectual disabilities (ID) remain one of the most socially 
isolated, at-risk population subsets. Many with vision needs are going unnoticed and often the vision care community is not trained in how best to support people with ID. Globally, 35% of Special Olympics athletes need new prescription glasses and 23% have never received an  eye exam
28.
On World Health Day 2021, CVI confirmed its support of the Special Olympics Opening Eyes Program through a three-year partnership with Optometry Giving Sight (OGS) and Special Olympics. Together, the three organizations have committed $300,000 through 2023 to provide Special Olympics athletes with high-quality vision and eye health screenings, prescription eyewear, and sports goggles, while also providing improved education and training for eye care professionals and optometry students so they are better able to meet the unique needs of people with ID.
The collaboration will also educate athletes and their families in Kenya and the U.S. (two key 
countries for the Special Olympics) around key aspects of eye care, such as how to care for glasses and contact lenses. The partnership aims to provide Opening Eyes services to a minimum of 2,000 athletes participating in Special Olympics games in the U.S. and 500 in Kenya, with a focus on rural communities.
GLOBAL IMPACT
Through Cooper Giving, our global charitable giving program, we contribute time, money, and resources to organizations including OGS and March of Dimes. For example, employees can receive a direct match of up to $5,000 annually for donations to either organization. 
Additionally, we encourage local sites to 
support the causes they are passionate about. Through our local charities program, organizations can apply for up to $1,000 for events in the communities where Cooper operates. For examples of the many community-based organizations our teams support, visit our website.
CooperVision: Giving Sight and 
Opportunity
More than one billion people are unnecessarily 
blind or vision impaired because they cannot access regular eye care. CooperVision (CVI) is a long-standing partner of OGS, a leading nonprofit that has provided basic eye care services to over seven million people since 2007. CVI renewed its partnership agreement through 2023 as a Global Platinum Sponsor. CVI employees have also raised $1.3 million to date, including matching funds, by participating in the OGS World Sight Day challenge, funding the equivalent of eye exams for over a quarter million people in the developing world
29. Through these efforts, 
as well as a patient rebate program, and cause-related marketing campaigns, CVI has generated over $3 million in contributions for OGS to date. 
CVI is also a global patron of the International 
Agency for the Prevention of Blindness and a founding member of the Global Myopia Awareness Coalition, bringing greater awareness and action to the growing prevalence and severity of myopia in children worldwide. 
CooperSurgical: Healthy Mothers, 
Healthy Babies
CooperSurgical (CSI) is the platinum sponsor 
for Resolve.org – the national infertility 
association. From 2019 through 2020, CSI donated $165,000 to March of Dimes to assist in advancing the nonprofit’s mission of supporting the health of mothers and their babies. Additionally, through fundraising and dissemination of materials, CSI employees helped March of Dimes translate and distribute health education materials to directly serve the communities where Cooper has offices and staff. CSI is continuing to look at ways to partner with organizations that share its values and support healthy women and families.
28 https://www.specialolympics.org/videos/inclusive-health-opening-eyes?locale=en
29 As of December 2020
SPOTLIGHT
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet 
41
Data and Performance Our PartnershipsData and Performance
Topic Accounting Metric(s) 2020 Data/Response 2019 Data SASB Code
Affordability & 
PricingDescription of how price information for each product is disclosed to customers or to their agents CooperVision (CVI) sells  spherical, toric, multifocal, and toric multifocal lens products in most modalities to  key 
ac
counts, which include optical chains, global retailers, certain buying groups and mass merchandisers. CVI 
operates in a highly competitive market and pricing, along with product quality, technological benefit, service, and reliability are the primary criteria for differentiation for CVI products.
 
C
ooperSurgical (CSI) offers a broad array of products and services focused on advancing the health of 
women, babies, and families through a
 
diversified portfolio of products and services including medical devices, 
fertility, genomics, diagnostics, and contraception. Sales of CSI products are primarily to hospitals and surgical centers,
 
OB/GYN medical offices, and fertility clinics. Payment depends on the availability of payor coverage and 
the adequacy of reimbursement, for the
 
procedures using our products, by
 
government insurance programs and 
other third-party payors. Read more on pages 21-22, 40, and 47 of our 2020 10-K.HC-MS-240a.2
Product Safety Number of recalls issued; total units recalled
Total Recalls
30
Class 1
Class 2Class 3Total Units100919,8398062305,490HC-MS-
250a.1Data Summary T able and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index
SASB is an independent nonprofit organization that sets standards to guide the disclosure of sustainability information by companies to their investors. The following Index maps our 
disclosures to certain SASB indicators. Data and information in this Report pertain to efforts in 2019, 2020, and 2021 and we specify if metrics are provided for fiscal or calendar year.
30 Recall data is based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) classification date and is publicly available. Recalls generally involved incorrect labeling, faulty sealing of product pouches, or minor performance issues.
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships
42
Data and Performance Product Safety List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch 
Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products 
database0 0 HC-MS-250a.2
Product Safety Number of fatalities related to products as 
reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience0 0 HC-MS-250a.3
Product Safety Number of FDA enforcement actions taken 
in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), by type0 0 HC-MS-250a.4
Ethical MarketingTotal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims$0.00 in monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings $0.00 in monetary losses as a result of legal proceedingsHC-MS-270a.1
Ethical MarketingDescription of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products
Code of Conduct page 14 HC-MS-270a.2
Product Design& LifecycleManagementDiscussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human health considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet demand for sustainable productsMost of our products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and other regulatory bodies abroad.
 
We also maintain compliance to Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia, 
Brazil’s Agencia Nacional de Vigilancia Sanitaria, Health Canada, Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare, and the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency.
The Company continues to monitor and comply with environmental health and safety regulations in countries 
in which it operates throughout the world, in particular, European Union and China Restrictions on the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances, or REACH.HC-MS-410a.1
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships
43
Data and Performance Supply Chain 
ManagementPercentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in third-party audit programs for manufacturing and product quality(1) 100% of CooperVision’s and CooperSurgical’s certified manufacturing and distribution facilities participate in third-party (auditing organization) audits
(2) 94% of CooperVision’s tier one suppliers participate in third-party audit programs. CooperSurgical uses a 
performance monitoring supplier scorecard and typically audits high-risk suppliers every three years on site and medium-risk suppliers every three years remotely.HC-MS-430a.1
Supply Chain ManagementDescription of efforts to maintain traceability within the distribution chainTo maintain traceability of our products within the distribution chain, CooperVision and CooperSurgical apply track and trace procedures that comply with global regulatory requirements. These track and trace procedures monitor end-to-end traceability and identification through the stages of manufacturing, distribution, and supply chain. CooperVision and CooperSurgical use Unique Device Identifiers (UDIs) on required medical device packaging. UDI incorporates human and machine-readable identification that provides product tracing.HC-MS-430a.2
Supply Chain ManagementDescription of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials
For each critical material within its supply chain, CooperVision assesses the potential risk of disruption to supply, sets inventory targets, and develops risk mitigation plans. The sourcing of critical materials within CooperVision is managed by the Global Sourcing Team, which maintains a risk tracker for each supplier. The risk tracker is updated and reviewed at least annually. Critical material suppliers are subject to regularly scheduled internal audits and most critical materials are, where possible, dual sourced.
We expect our suppliers to abide by CooperVision’s Supplier Code of Conduct and CooperSurgical’s Supplier 
Terms and Conditions. CooperCompanies also seeks to understand the origin of the materials that go into our products, and are committed to compliance with conflict minerals requirements, supplier due diligence, and ongoing supply chain evaluation. Read more about our approach in our Conflict Minerals reportHC-MS-430a.3
Business Ethics Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with bribery or corruption$0.00 in monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings $0.00 in monetary losses as a result of legal proceedingsHC-MS-510a.1
Business Ethics Description of code of ethics governing 
interactions with health care professionals
Code of Conduct pg 31 HC-MS-510a.2
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships
44
Data and Performance Additional Key Performance Indicators
2020 2019
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 GHGs tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) 29,104 29,747
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 GHGs tCO2e (Location-Based) 95,274 53,721
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 GHGs tCO2e (Market-based) 78,796 33,442
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 + 2 GHGs tCO2e (Location-Based) 124,378 83,468
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 + 2 GHGs tCO2e (Market-Based) 107,904 63,189
Energy Natural gas usage (primary source of Scope 1 emissions) cubic meters 9,969,231 9,995,375
Energy Electricity usage (primary source of Scope 2 emissions) kilowatt hours 204,075,804 215,277,925
Employee Safety Lost Time Case Rate (Lost time cases x 200,000 / total hours worked) FY 2020 CVI: 0.85 FY 2019 CVI: 1.09
Workforce31Global Employees 11,727 10,455
Workforce Diversity - Global Employees32Gender Diversity – Global Employees 48% unavailable
Workforce Diversity - Global Employee32Gender Diversity – First Line Managers / Supervisors 43% 42%
Workforce Diversity - Global Employee32Gender Diversity – Directors / Senior Managers 35% 35%
Workforce Diversity - Global Employee32Gender Diversity – VPs and Above 25% 22%
Workforce Diversity - U.S. Employees33White 67% 69%
Workforce Diversity - U.S. Employees33Asian 14% 13%
Workforce Diversity - U.S. Employees33Hispanic or Latino 11% 10%
Workforce Diversity - U.S. Employees33Black or African American 7% 7%
Workforce Diversity - U.S. Employees33Two or More Races 1% 1%
Workforce Diversity - U.S. Employees33American Indian or Alaska Native <1% <1%
Workforce Diversity Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander <% <1%
31 Data as of December, 2020
32 Diversity data in 2020 column is as of May 2020; Diversity data in 2019 column is as of July 2019
33 Diversity data in 2020 column is as of December 2019; Diversity data in 2019 column is as of December 2018
Introduction Responding To COVID-19 Governance, Ethics, and Compliance Our People Our Products Our Planet Our Partnerships
45
Data and Performance Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains “forward-looking statements” as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements relating to guidance, plans, prospects, goals, strategies, future actions, events 
or performance and other statements of which are other than statements of historical fact, including all statements regarding the expected impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business; and statements regarding acquisitions including the acquired companies’ financial position, market position, product development and business strategy, expected cost synergies, expected timing and benefits of the transaction, difficulties in integrating entities or operations, as well as estimates of our and the acquired entities’ future expenses, sales and diluted earnings per share are forward-looking. In addition, all statements regarding anticipated growth in our revenue, anticipated effects of any product recalls, anticipated market conditions, planned product launches and expected results of operations and integration of any acquisition are forward-looking.  To identify these statements look for words like “believes,” “outlook,” “probable,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “seeks,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates” or “anticipates” and similar words or phrases.  Forward-looking statements necessarily depend on assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise and are subject to risks and uncertainties. 
Detailed descriptions of a number of important risk factors that could cause our actual results and future actions to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements can be found in 
our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including under the “Forward-Looking Statements” section in our press releases and under the “Business”, “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as such sections may be updated in our quarterly filings, copies of which are available on the Company’s website: www.coopercos.com. We caution investors that forward-looking statements reflect our analysis only on their stated date. We disclaim any intent to update them except as required by law.
“All trademarks appearing in this report are trademarks owned by or licensed to CooperCompanies or its subsidiaries.”