Covering fiscal year 2019
Environmental 
Progress 
Report.Contents
3
8
28
6151
Cover: An Apple-protected forest in Maine, United States. 
Image Credit: EcoPhotography 3 Letter from Lisa Jackson
 5 Our responsibility
 6 Our environmental strategy
 7 Our environmental vision
 30 Our approach
 31 Materials
 44 Water stewardship
 48 Zero waste to landfill
 53 Our approach
 54 Mapping and engagement 
 56 Assessment
 58 Innovation 10 Our approach
 14 Low-carbon design
 16 Energy efficiency
 18 Renewable electricity
 24 Direct emissions abatement
 25 Carbon removalIntroduction
Resources
Smarter ChemistryClimate Change
 62 Appendix A: Apple’s environmental data
68 Appendix B: Facilities renewable energy supplement
78  Appendix C: Assurance and review statements
94 Appendix D: Environmental health and safety policy statement
95 Appendix E: ISO 14001 certificationAppendix
2020  Environmental Progress ReportClimate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 2
apple.com/environmentIntroductionLisa Jackson
Vice President, Environment,  
Policy & Social Initiatives 
Our year in review
The responsibility to protect our shared planet 
intersects every aspect of our lives. This year has 
offered humbling reminders that nature is bigger 
and more powerful than any one of us—and 
that our ability to solve worldwide challenges 
depends on historic innovation and collaboration.
That’s why Apple has dedicated our resources—and our best thinking—to considering 
the environment in everything we do: the energy that powers our operations, the 
materials in our devices, the companies we do business with, and the health and safety 
of those who make and use our products. 
We’ve led our industry in reducing our environmental footprint for years, but we know 
there is more to do. So we’ve set a groundbreaking new goal to further reduce our 
impact on the planet we all share: By 2030, we’re committing to total carbon 
neutrality. We are already carbon neutral for our corporate emissions, including 
corporate travel—resulting from our use of 100 percent renewable electricity for our 
facilities and investing in high-quality projects that protect and restore forests, wetlands, 
and grasslands. And we’re well on our way in our supply chain. But we’re going further 
to cover our entire, end- to-end footprint. All the way down to the shipping that moves 
our products around the world, and the energy used to power our customers’ devices. 
But our journey is incomplete if the communities most impacted by environmental 
harms do not have a voice in our mission to address them. That’s why a key component 
of our roadmap is an all-new Impact Accelerator for minority-owned businesses—so 
that our investments in renewable energy or carbon capture can help fight systemic 
barriers in our economy. That investment is part of our $100 million Racial Equity and 
Justice Initiative to expand opportunities for Black and Brown people in the areas of 
education, economic equality, and criminal justice reform.
This initiative will support not just our carbon goal but all of our ongoing environmental 
ambitions. Like our visionary goal of closing the loop on our supply chain and to one 
day no longer mine materials from the earth. Many of our products now contain higher 
percentages of recycled material than ever before, but we won’t be content until that 
number hits 100 percent for all of our devices. Achieving this critical goal will also help 
us to further reduce our carbon footprint, and we’re dedicating Apple’s unmatched 
innovative capacity to get there. 
Perhaps most importantly, we are channeling our learnings and influence to bring 
others along. We’re committed to supporting smart policies around the world that 
better protect the planet and make transitioning to a low-carbon future more efficient. 
And we’ve helped dozens of Apple suppliers transition to using clean energy. They’ve 
built a powerful new competitive advantage that will set them apart in the years ahead. 
And those who are holding out should know that the clock is ticking. Our commitment 
to the planet means working with partners who share in our mission.
We hope the details in this Environmental Progress Report offer a model for others to 
copy. We are proud of what we’ve accomplished, but not so proud as to believe that 
these efforts alone are enough. In the urgent years ahead, we will all need to think 
differently and act urgently in order to build the safer, healthier, more equitable future 
we all know is possible. We’re committed to doing our part. 
2020  Environmental Progress ReportIntroduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 3
apple.com/environmentReport
highlights
renewable  
electricity
We continue to use 100 percent 
renewable electricity at Apple stores, 
data centers, and offices across  
44 countries. green bonds
Apple remains the largest corporate 
issuer of green bonds, underscoring 
our strong commitment to the 
environment.
suppliers committed  
to clean energy
More than 70 suppliers have committed 
to 100 percent renewable electricity 
for Apple production.
Award
The United Nations recognized  
our achievements in reducing  
carbon emissions.rating
For our work to reduce carbon 
emissions, we were recognized for 
the sixth consecutive year in CDP’s 
Climate Change “A List.”100% $4.7B
70+
UN Climate 
Neutral NowCDP Areduction  
of emissions 
We’ve reduced Apple’s overall 
carbon footprint by nearly 35 percent 
since our emissions peaked in 2015. 
And we’ve now committed to carbon 
neutrality by 2030.35%
Overall Operations
Mind the Store
Apple was the only retailer to receive 
the top rating in the “Mind the Store” 
campaign for our work to eliminate 
harmful chemicals in products  
and packaging. recycled content 
in MacBook Air
The 13-inch MacBook Air with 
Retina display, introduced in July 
2019, contains over 40 percent 
recycled content. 40%
A+Design
recycled rare earth 
elements in iPhone
The Taptic Engine in iPhone 11, 
iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro Max 
is built from 100 percent recycled 
rare earth elements—a first for Apple 
and for any smartphone.1100%
2020  Environmental Progress ReportIntroduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 4
apple.com/environmentOur value 
chainApple has a history of channeling 
innovation to address global challenges. 
That task has never been more urgent 
than now, with the existing threats of 
climate change and environmental 
degradation that our planet faces. We 
believe we can make the world’s most 
iconic products—without depleting the 
earth’s resources. That’s why we take 
responsibility for the impact of our entire 
value chain, including the complete life 
cycle of our products, as well as our own facilities. This includes supporting 
the environmental innovation needed 
to help us meet our goals, and creating 
economic opportunities for minority-
owned businesses and institutions that 
have been historically disadvantaged. 
By doing so, we hope to build pathways 
for others to reduce their footprint while 
addressing environmental impacts that 
disproportionately negatively affect 
communities of color.Our 
responsibility
Material  
sourcingComponent 
manufacturing
Product final 
assembly
Product 
useEnd-of-life 
recovery
Apple  
officesApple data  
centersApple  
storesCorporate facilitiesProduct life cycle
Product 
transport
2020  Environmental Progress ReportIntroduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 5
apple.com/environmentLow-carbon design 
Energy efficiency 
Renewable electricity 
Direct emissions 
abatement 
Carbon removal Mapping  
and engagement 
Assessment 
Innovation Materials 
Water stewardship 
Zero waste to landfill Climate change Resources Smarter chemistryWe focus our environmental work in areas where we believe we can make 
the biggest difference. Our strategy is informed by comprehensive data 
and input from external stakeholders. What we learn drives our mission: 
to make products without taking from the earth. Achieving this ambition 
requires focus and innovation in three key interconnected areas: 
We’ve set a goal to become 
carbon neutral across our entire 
footprint by 2030. We will get 
there by reducing our emissions 
by 75 percent compared to 2015, 
and then investing in carbon removal 
solutions for the remaining emissions.We aim to make products and 
packaging using only recycled 
or renewable materials. At the 
same time, we’re committed to 
stewarding water resources and 
sending zero waste to landfill.We maintain rigorous controls 
to ensure our products are safe 
for anyone who assembles, 
uses, or recycles them.Our environmental 
strategy
2020  Environmental Progress ReportIntroduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 6
apple.com/environmentOur ambitious vision across our three focus areas outlines 
where we are headed and what we intend to achieve.Our environmental 
vision
We are proud to have reached 
100 percent renewable electricity for 
Apple facilities, and carbon neutrality 
for Apple’s corporate emissions, 
including business travel and employee 
commute. We are embarking on a new 
goal to become carbon neutral for 
our entire carbon footprint by 2030. 
To get there, we will:Climate change Resources Smarter chemistry
Use only recycled and 
renewable materials in 
our products and packaging.Drive 100 percent transparency  
of chemical use in our supply 
chain and products.
Eliminate plastics in 
our packaging by 2025.Minimize exposure to 
chemicals that could be harmful to 
human health or the environment.Transition our entire manufacturing 
supply chain to 100 percent  
renewable electricity by 2030.
Minimize use of 
freshwater resources in   
water-stressed locations.Integrate Smarter Chemistry 
innovation into the way we build 
and design our products.Reduce emissions by 75 percent 
from 2015 levels by 2030.
Eliminate waste sent to landfill 
from our corporate facilities 
and our suppliers.Balance the remaining 
emissions with high-quality 
carbon removal projects.Our ambition is to: More specifically, we will:We’ve progressed significantly 
toward making products and 
packaging using only recycled 
or renewable materials; 
stewarding water resources; 
and sending zero waste to landfill.For years, we’ve led the industry in 
eliminating potentially harmful chemicals 
from our products. We will continue 
to drive Smarter Chemistry to promote 
human and environmental health through 
leadership, transparency, and innovation.
2020  Environmental Progress ReportIntroduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 7
apple.com/environmentClimate 
Change .
Apple launched a first -of-its-kind China Clean Energy Fund to connect 
suppliers with renewable electricity projects. Our first fund investments 
included this 48-megawatt wind farm in Hunan province.
2020  Environmental Progress Report8 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix
apple.com/environmentHighlights
We’ve achieved some significant milestones 
in our work to reduce emissions and accelerate 
climate solutions, through years of investments  
in emissions reduction programs.
Our 2019 comprehensive carbon 
footprint has shown a 35 percent 
absolute reduction since it peaked 
in 2015, even as product sales 
have increased. We’ve done this 
by focusing on energy efficiency, 
low-carbon design, and transitioning 
to 100 percent renewable electricity 
at all of our facilities worldwide—and 
working with our suppliers toward the 
same goal. To date, over 70 suppliers 
have committed to 100 percent 
clean energy for Apple production.And we’ve been focused on reducing 
the carbon footprint of our products by 
transitioning to recycled and renewable 
materials in key components.
We know we all have to do more. 
Mitigating climate change is of 
vital importance. That’s why we’re 
accelerating and expanding our  
work and announcing that by 2030  
we will reach carbon neutrality for  
our entire footprint. This includes 
emissions in our supply chain and  
across the product life cycle,  from raw material extraction and 
processing, to manufacturing, and 
through to product use and end-of -life 
material recovery. We are also now 
carbon neutral for our own operations. 
There’s never been more urgency 
to act, given the devastating threats 
of climate change, so we are sharing 
our progress and ambitions with 
the world to ask others to join us 
in eliminating carbon emissions.
Carbon neutral  
operations
Beginning April 2020, Apple is 
carbon neutral for our corporate 
emissions, investing in high-quality 
projects that protect and restore 
forests, wetlands, and grasslands.Product  
energy use 
In 11 years, we’ve reduced average 
product energy use by 73 percent.Low-carbon  
design 
By increasing efficiency and using 
recycled and other low-carbon 
aluminum in our products, we have 
decreased our carbon footprint by 
4.3 million metric tons in 2019. Supply chain  
renewable energy 
Over 70 suppliers have committed 
to 100 percent renewable electricity 
for Apple production, of which 
2.7 gigawatts is operational today.70+
4.3M 
 73% 
Progress  
toward zero
We reduced our comprehensive 
carbon footprint by 35 percent  
since its peak in 2015.35%
Renewable electricity 
at corporate facilities 
We continued to source 100 percent 
renewable electricity at all offices, 
retail stores, and data centers, 
across 44 countries.100% 
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment9 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixClimate change is a defining 
issue of our time, and the 
science clearly shows that 
we are at a pivotal moment. 
From shifting weather 
patterns that threaten food 
production, to widespread 
wildfires that devastate 
entire communities and 
ecosystems, the impacts of 
climate change are global in 
scope and unprecedented in 
scale. Without comprehensive 
and immediate action today, 
adapting to these impacts 
in the future will be more 
difficult and costly.Our philosophy for achieving carbon 
neutrality follows these tenets:
Take complete accountability:  
We take responsibility not only for our 
direct operations, but for the entire life 
cycle of our products. The responsibility 
extends from the production of raw 
materials through product manufacturing 
and shipping, to the energy used to power 
our facilities and our customers’ devices, 
and recover materials at the end of 
their useful life.
Set ambitious targets:  
We plan to reduce emissions by 
75 percent by 2030, compared to 
2015 levels, through product design 
and engineering, energy efficiency 
and renewable energy, and direct 
emissions abatement. Then for the 
remaining emissions, we will invest 
in carbon removal, like natural climate 
solutions that protect and restore 
ecosystems and play a vital role in 
removing carbon from our atmosphere. Match solutions to sources:  
We will address direct emissions through 
energy efficiency, emissions abatement, 
fuel switching, and carbon removal. 
And we will address emissions from 
electricity generation with renewable 
electricity. In this way, the solutions we 
create will match their sources, which, 
when scaled, is necessary to truly 
decarbonize our economy.
Make no compromises:  
We don’t believe there is an inherent 
trade-off between the environment and 
what is good for business. We intend to 
meet our carbon reduction goals without 
compromising on things like our design 
and performance, the durability of our 
products, or our bottom line. We believe 
that our carbon goal will challenge us to 
improve on all aspects of our business.Pursue all solutions:  
A successful approach means working 
across multiple solutions. We must 
concurrently deploy all the tools at 
our disposal, scaling proven solutions 
and enabling new ones. 
Be open:  
We are committed to transparency about 
our climate strategy, progress toward 
our reduction goal, as well as climate 
risk–related financial information. To this 
end, we report each year to CDP, a global 
disclosure nonprofit, which has aligned to 
the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. 
In addition, we’re currently undertaking a 
climate-scenario analysis that will help us 
even better understand the physical and 
transitional effects of climate change.Work together:  
The best solutions are often found 
through collaboration. We plan to pursue 
partnerships and identify projects 
and financing models that help scale 
efficiency, renewables, and carbon 
removal beyond our footprint.Our 
approach
Renewable 
electricity Direct emissions 
abatement Carbon 
removal Energy 
efficiency Low-carbon 
design 
We will design products and 
manufacturing processes to be  
less carbon-intensive.We will increase energy efficiency  
at our corporate facilities and 
in our supply chain. We will maintain our use of 100 percent 
renewable electricity for our corporate 
facilities and transition our entire supply 
chain to 100 percent clean, renewable 
sources of electricity.We will avoid direct greenhouse gas 
emissions through technological  
solutions or switching to non- fossil  
-based low -carbon fuels.Working in parallel with our 
emissions reduction efforts, we will 
scale up investments in carbon removal 
projects, including nature-based 
solutions that protect and restore 
ecosystems around the world.Our 10-year climate roadmap will leverage five pillars to decarbonize Apple’s carbon footprint: As a global business, we have a 
responsibility to our customers, 
employees, shareholders, and the world 
at large, to take strong, decisive action on 
climate change. That’s why we recently  
announced our goal to be carbon neutral  
by 2030. This is 20 years ahead of the  
recommendations by the Intergovernmental  
Panel on Climate Change, which call for 
carbon neutrality as a planet by 2050. 
To meet our goal, we’ve created a 
climate roadmap. By working with teams 
across the company, we’ve identified a 
broad portfolio of projects to reduce our 
emissions, which we will regularly update. 
We are leveraging Apple’s USD$2.2 billion 
green bond issued in November 2019 
to help meet this climate goal.
apple.com/environment10
2020  Environmental Progress Report Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixClimate change is real 
and we all share a 
responsibility to fight it. 
We will never waver, 
because we know that 
future generations 
depend on us.”
Tim Cook , CEO
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment11 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixUnderstanding our carbon footprint is essential to taking strong action to eliminate it. 
That’s why we model it so comprehensively, taking responsibility for emissions across 
our entire value chain, including Apple’s corporate operations, as well as across the 
product life cycle, from manufacturing (including material sourcing), use, transportation, 
and end-of-life material recovery. And each year, we use the results to adjust our 
climate roadmap, which lays out our plan to get to carbon neutral by 2030.Apple’s 2019  
carbon footprint
0% <1%2% 6%16%75%Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3
Corporate emissions Product life cycle emissions Emissions 
from electricity<1%
Direct emissionsBusiness travel & 
employee commute
Material recoveryProduct transportProduct useProduct manufacturing
The WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines the methodology for calculating carbon emissions.
Scope 1 emissions  are those greenhouse gases 
resulting from fuel combustion from sources we own 
or operate—like vehicles or natural gas for heating.Scope 2 emissions refer to those resulting from use 
of electricity. Renewable energy generates minimal 
Scope 2 emissions, whereas burning coal, oil, or natural 
gas to produce electricity releases carbon dioxide 
and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.Scope 3 emissions  refer to all other indirect emissions 
that occur in a company’s value chain, including upstream 
and downstream activities.
Note: This graphic was edited on October 2020 to correct the percentage breakdowns of “product manufacturing” (previously 76%), “product use” (previously 14%), “product transport” 
(previously 5%), and “business travel & employee commute” (previously 3%). The total carbon footprint (25.1 million metric tons) and reported breakdowns on page 63 remain accurate. Apple’s  
carbon  
footprintmetric 
tons of 
CO2e 25.1M
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment12 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixIn fiscal year 2019, we reduced our comprehensive carbon footprint for the fourth 
consecutive year—down 35 percent compared to 2015, when Apple’s carbon emissions 
peaked, even as net revenue increased by 11 percent over that same period. In the past 
year, we avoided over 10 million metric tons from our emissions reduction initiatives—like 
our Supplier Clean Energy Program, which lowered our footprint by 4.4 million metric tons. Our past and future 
carbon footprint 
Historical emissions Projected future emissions
Emissions with reductions
Avoided emissions
Emissions rangeProjected emissions reduction
Projected carbon removal
Net emissions
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
30.9 33.8 34.2 38.4 29.5 27.5 25.2 25.1Net zero emissionsWe also made several product 
design changes over the past five 
years, like sourcing aluminum made 
with hydroelectricity and increased 
recycled content, as well as improving 
efficiency—which together avoided 
another 4.3 million metric tons in 2019.
Measuring our footprint
We use a life cycle–based approach 
to measuring our comprehensive 
carbon footprint. We utilize as much Apple-specific data as possible, falling 
back on industry averages where original 
data isn’t available. Because we’re 
committed to accuracy and transparency, 
we’re constantly refining our product life 
cycle assessment model and sources of 
data. For example, we recently obtained 
more accurate data for the amount of 
electricity used to manufacture a number 
of components like onboard electronics, 
bare boards and flexes, and various 
module assemblies. The net result was 
an increase in our 2019 carbon footprint.If we used the same data and model as 
2018, our 2019 carbon emissions would 
have been about 23 million metric tons, 
or a decrease of 7 percent. Each year, 
we obtain third-party verification of our 
comprehensive carbon footprint that 
validates the accuracy and robustness 
of our methodology (see Appendix C). 
We will continue to revisit and refine 
our carbon footprint moving forward to 
maximize its accuracy, and will adjust 
our climate roadmap as necessary.
Since 2015, we’ve reduced emissions by 35 percent. Building on this success, we recently announced our new goal to become carbon neutral by 2030, targeting 
an ambitious 75 percent reduction in emissions compared to 2015. 
Note: Beginning this year, we’ve included a range for recently estimated emissions, to reflect the potential variances inherent to modeling product-related carbon emissions. 
Each year, we refine our methodology to ensure the accuracy of our estimates.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment13 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixLow-carbon 
design
Apple makes hundreds of millions of products each year. 
Each product represents an opportunity to reduce our global 
carbon footprint—small changes can mean enormous results. 
We focus on design, like switching to low-carbon materials, 
improving manufacturing and material processes, and building 
energy efficiency into our products. 
We utilize carbon data during the design 
and engineering processes to inform 
product decisions. We believe this holds 
tremendous opportunities for reducing 
our overall carbon footprint.
Material efficiency
Using less material is one of the most 
effective ways to reduce the carbon 
impact of our products. Material 
efficiency avoids energy-intensive 
processing and transportation of raw 
materials. While manufacturing scrap 
does typically get directed toward the 
recycled materials market, we believe 
it is still best not to create the waste 
in the first place. So we’re exploring 
manufacturing processes that generate 
less material inefficiencies.To this end, we’ve improved how we 
manufacture iPhone and Apple Watch. 
iPhone 11 Pro, for example, integrated 
a novel technique in the production of 
the steel band, reducing steel use by 
over 30 percent compared to traditional 
forging methods. The reduction in 
steel use resulted in a savings of over 
1 kilogram of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO 2e) per iPhone. 
We also reduced the amount of 
aluminum used to manufacture 
Apple Watch Series 5 by 50 percent 
using a hollow extrusion process. 
This utilization improvement, combined 
with 100 percent recycled content, 
reduced the carbon impact of the 
aluminum enclosure by 25 percent.
Low-carbon materials
Material selection is another way to reduce 
the carbon footprint of our products. 
Our strategy is to transition to materials 
manufactured using low-carbon energy 
and recycled content. We’ve prioritized 
materials and components that make up 
a large part of our carbon footprint. 
One example is aluminum, which in 2015 
represented 27 percent of our product 
manufacturing footprint. We started by 
prioritizing the use of aluminum that 
was smelted using hydroelectricity 
rather than fossil fuels like coal. We also 
reengineered our manufacturing process 
to reincorporate aluminum scrap. We then 
went even further to source 100 percent 
recycled aluminum, utilizing post-industrial 
aluminum waste generated during 
the manufacturing of Apple products. 
We’re now selling four products with a 
100 percent recycled aluminum enclosure.  
As a result of these initiatives, we’ve seen 
a 63 percent decrease in Apple’s aluminum 
carbon footprint compared to 2015.
Use of 100 percent recycled 
aluminum in the enclosure 
of the MacBook Air with  
Retina display helped cut the  
product’s carbon footprint 
by nearly half compared to 
the 2017 MacBook Air.Improved manufacturing efficiencies, as well as use of recycled aluminum and aluminum smelted 
with hydroelectricity helped us reduce our 2019 carbon footprint by 4.3 million metric tons of CO 2e.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment14 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixPro Display XDR uses efficient backlight control to deliver outstanding 
brightness and contrast, while using 40 percent less energy than 
required by ENERGY STAR.40%The Super Retina XDR display in iPhone 11 Pro is up to 15 percent more 
efficient, contributing to our largest leap ever in battery life. We estimate  
it costs only 70 cents a year to charge iPhone 11 Pro once a day.*70¢The 16-inch MacBook Pro consumes 65 percent less energy 
than the ENERGY STAR® energy efficiency requirement.65%
Product energy efficiency
Customer use of products represents 
16 percent of our overall carbon footprint. 
Prioritizing the energy efficiency of 
these products can benefit both our 
customers and our carbon impact. 
So we set aggressive energy efficiency 
targets early in the design process. Some 
recent efficiency improvements include 
the use of software and power-efficient 
components that intelligently manage 
power consumption. And our latest MacBook computers now ship  
with power adapters that are over  
89 percent efficient,2 meaning that 
it takes less electricity to power the 
device. Apple products consistently rank 
among the high-performing products 
rated by ENERGY STAR—which was 
established to recognize the 25 percent 
most energy-efficient computers 
on the market. In 2019, 100 percent 
of our eligible products received an 
ENERGY STAR rating for superior energy efficiency.3 As a result of these 
energy efficiency improvements, we’ve 
decreased the average product energy 
use across all major product lines by 
73 percent since 2008.4 And 100 percent 
of our eligible products received a 
Gold rating, the highest awarded, from 
EPEAT, an environmental rating system 
for electronic products, where energy 
efficiency is a highlighted feature.5
* Calculation assumes one full charge per day, using the U.S. Energy Information Administration 
average electricity cost in the U.S. for January 2020.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment15 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixFor many existing buildings at our 
facilities and in our supply chain, we 
conduct energy efficiency audits to 
identify system improvements that could 
reduce energy use. And we even think 
about efficiency when shipping products 
to our customers too.
Working energy efficiently
Apple’s energy efficiency program 
targets natural gas and electricity use 
at data centers, retail stores, offices, 
and R&D facilities located around the 
world. For existing buildings, we take a 
methodical approach, auditing building 
performance, and then deploying 
identified reduction measures. In Europe, 
since 2015, we’ve completed 81 energy 
audits of Apple facilities, across eight 
countries, and 49 in the past year. 
Data centers are typically very 
energy -intensive. So we’ve deployed 
a number of energy efficiency 
technologies at these locations, such as 
evaporative cooling, airside economizers, 
and sophisticated cooling systems that 
optimize the sensitive temperature 
conditions at these facilities. An energy 
assessment of our data centers found 
they were performing, on average, about 
60 percent better than the ASHRAE 
90.4 baseline specific to data centers. 
We’ve improved our energy tracking 
and benchmarking processes, enabling 
early detection of low-performing 
buildings, using data from utility meters 
that continuously track 15-minute 
electricity data and daily natural gas 
energy consumption.We’re now closely monitoring 
consumption from over 500 electricity 
and natural gas meters across 
261 buildings in the U.S., and are 
in the process of incorporating 
occupancy and use data to improve 
accuracy and benchmarking.
We also integrate energy efficiency 
early in the design process when 
developing new offices or Apple stores, 
facilitating design that accommodates 
local conditions, from temperature 
and humidity to light. We have rolled 
out a store prototype at over 20 retail 
locations, designing in energy efficiency 
from the beginning, resulting in energy 
savings of 10 to 20 percent, compared 
to the industry-standard energy 
benchmark (ASHRAE 90.1). For our 
larger and more complex Flagship 
Stores, we have been able to affect the 
store design in more significant ways to 
maximize energy performance, resulting 
in anticipated energy savings of 20 to 
40 percent, compared to the ASHRAE 
benchmark. And once a building is 
operational, we continue to monitor 
energy performance to ensure it is 
performing optimally.
In fiscal year 2019, our energy efficiency 
program avoided an additional 
26.4 million kilowatt -hours and 194,500 
therms per year from existing buildings 
and retrocommissioning, as well as 
new building design. Together, these 
initiatives avoid about 7500 metric tons 
of CO 2e per year.Simply put, the cleanest energy is the energy we don’t use.  
And when we use less energy, we need less from clean sources.  
To increase energy efficiency at our offices, data centers, and retail 
stores, we start by designing buildings to optimize energy use. Energy 
efficiency
18%
In fiscal year 2019, 
we implemented energy 
efficiency measures to 
over 6,400,000 square 
feet of new and existing 
buildings, resulting in 
18 percent electricity 
savings—over 26.4 million 
kilowatt -hours saved 
per year.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment16 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixA more energy-efficient 
supply chain
The energy our supply chain uses to 
manufacture products represents about 
three-quarters of Apple’s comprehensive 
carbon footprint. Most of those 
emissions are from electricity use, 
so we prioritize supporting suppliers 
in becoming more energy efficient, 
and then moving them to clean, 
renewable energy sources.
Our Supplier Energy Efficiency Program 
aims to educate suppliers, identify 
initiatives to reduce energy use, and 
manage those projects to completion. 
While we’ve historically prioritized 
facilities with the highest energy use and 
potential for improvement, more recently, 
we’ve focused on supplier facilities 
by product line, like iPhone, which 
represents a significant percentage 
of Apple’s manufacturing footprint.
To help suppliers reduce their energy 
use, we conduct energy audits and 
train suppliers to uncover opportunities 
for energy efficiency—like replacing 
outdated or inefficient heating, 
cooling, and lighting systems; repairing 
compressed air leaks; and recovering 
waste heat. The assessments provide 
suppliers with a cost-benefit analysis 
for implementing energy efficiency 
improvements. The number of facilities 
participating in our Supplier Energy 
Efficiency Program grew to 92 in 
2019, an 8 percent increase over the 
previous year. In 2019, we avoided 
over 779,000 annualized metric tons 
of supply chain carbon emissions 
(CO 2e), a 67 percent improvement 
compared to 2018.A focus on iPhone 
manufacturing 
Because iPhone manufacturing 
represents a significant portion of 
Apple’s manufacturing energy use, 
in 2018, we encouraged six facilities 
in China that perform the final assembly 
of iPhone to commit to an aggressive 
20 percent energy reduction by the end 
of 2020, compared to the 2017 baseline 
year. This three-year initiative is ahead 
of schedule, having already achieved 
16 percent more energy savings 
compared to the established 2017 
baseline. In 2019, 21 percent of Apple’s 
annual supply chain energy -related 
carbon savings resulted from this 
commitment alone. We are continuing 
to expand this product-driven strategy, 
with the addition of the final assembly 
sites for AirPods.
Supporting suppliers’ 
energy investments 
Access to capital often presents a 
significant barrier to suppliers seeking 
to implement the energy efficiency 
improvements identified in energy 
audits. In 2019, we collaborated with 
the U.S.-China Green Fund to accelerate 
engagement with the manufacturing 
sector through the creation of a 
special fund to initiate the investment 
of $100 million in supplier projects. 
The fund employs an innovative 
approach that provides both solution 
design and up-front capital investment 
for efficiency upgrade solutions. 
As savings are realized, the investment 
is recouped. This reduces the investment 
barrier for suppliers, while allowing them 
to realize energy savings achieved  
through upgraded equipment and   
management systems. Product transportation 
Our carbon footprint includes all the 
energy used for shipping our products 
to customers, retail stores, and 
distribution centers across the world. 
To reduce our carbon impact from 
shipping, we’ve focused on maximizing 
system efficiencies and prioritizing 
modes of transport with lower carbon 
impacts. And we’re continuously 
improving our Transportation 
Management Systems to identify 
which shipments could use ground and 
ocean transport instead of air without 
compromising on- time delivery.
In addition to transportation 
efficiencies that reduce our carbon 
footprint, we continue to partner with 
our shipping suppliers to leverage 
fleet improvements, sustainable fuels, 
and supply chain efficiencies.
779,000+
Working with suppliers 
to reduce energy used 
to manufacture our 
products resulted in over 
779,000 annualized metric 
tons of avoided carbon 
emissions in 2019.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment17 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixThe burning of coal, natural gas, and oil for electricity and heat 
is the largest single source of global greenhouse gas emissions.6 
By switching to renewable sources of electricity and investing 
in energy storage, we have a significant opportunity to reduce 
our impact on climate change and contribute to cleaner air 
for communities around the world where we operate.Renewable 
electricity
Since 2018, we’ve generated or sourced 
100 percent renewable electricity for 
all of Apple’s global facilities, driving 
our scope 2 emissions from electricity 
to zero. And we estimate that in our 
manufacturing supply chain, which itself 
makes up 75 percent of Apple’s overall 
carbon footprint, around 70 percent 
of emissions come from electricity. 
By investing in new renewable energy 
projects around the world and working 
with our suppliers to do the same, we 
aim not only to reduce Apple’s footprint 
but to help decarbonize electricity grids 
around the world.
We and our suppliers select projects 
with the greatest potential for impact 
and projects with a clear carbon, 
ecological, and social benefit. In most 
cases, wind and solar solutions meet 
our criteria. For some energy projects, 
such as biomass and hydroelectric 
generation, we review the individual 
project to ensure that it delivers 
positive impact while minimizing harm. 
We also uphold stringent accountability 
standards to ensure that all clean 
energy can be verified. 
Renewable electricity 
at Apple facilities
Apple occupies over a thousand 
offices, retail stores, data centers, 
and distribution centers across 
44 countries. We’ve been sourcing 
the electricity used at these facilities 
from 100 percent renewable energy, 
prioritizing the creation of new renewable energy projects, instead of taking away 
existing renewable energy available to 
others through the purchase of market 
renewable energy credits (RECs). 
This has meant taking on direct project 
ownership, making equity investments 
in new projects, and entering into 
power purchase agreements. As of 
January 2020, around 83 percent of the 
renewable energy Apple sources comes 
from projects that Apple created, for a 
total of 1.2 gigawatts operational and 
another 350 megawatts under contract. 
And we aim to soon cover our entire 
electricity load with Apple-created 
projects. We define “Apple created” 
projects to include:
•   Direct ownership  
[12 percent of Apple-created projects]  
Where feasible, we source renewable 
electricity by building our own 
projects, including solar, wind, 
biogas fuel cells, and low-impact 
hydro projects.
•   Equity investment  
[4 percent of Apple-created projects]  
In some markets, we invest capital 
to become part owner of new 
solar PV or wind projects and match 
that renewable generation with 
our energy use.
•   Long-term renewable 
energy contracts  
[84 percent of Apple-created projects]  
At other times, we sign long- term 
contracts for renewable electricity. 
These power purchase agreements 
and virtual power purchase agreements support new, local 
primarily solar PV and wind projects 
that meet our robust renewable 
energy–sourcing principles.
In the few remaining cases where we 
need more renewable energy than what’s 
generated by our Apple-created projects, 
we directly purchase renewable energy 
through available utility green energy 
programs (about 10 percent of the total 
load). Renewable energy is also supplied 
by colocation facility vendors (2 percent 
of the total load).
When these options are not available, 
or projects are still coming online, 
we are willing to procure robust market 
RECs (about 5 percent of the total load). 
As a condition, these must be tied to 
recently constructed projects, Green-e 
Energy certified, where available, and 
come from the same power grid as the 
Apple facility they support. We apply 
the same rigor to these purchases as 
we do to our Apple-created renewables. 
See Appendix B for additional details 
on Apple’s renewable energy solutions.
83%
About 83 percent of 
the renewable energy 
that Apple sources for 
our facilities are from 
Apple-created projects.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment18 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixProgress beyond 100 percent
Having reached 100 percent renewable 
electricity for Apple’s facilities worldwide, 
we’ve sought to enhance the impact of our 
renewable energy sourcing. We’ve done 
this through projects that deliver local 
community benefits, aggregation projects 
that democratize access to renewable 
electricity, storage solutions to maximize 
the use of renewable electricity, and by 
moving away from government -subsidized 
renewable energy projects.
Social impact
In 2019, we launched our Power for 
Impact program to promote renewable 
energy projects that deliver strong 
local community benefits. With 
funding from Apple, local communities 
and organizations gain access to 
cost -effective energy. At the same time, 
Apple retains the projects’ environmental 
attributes, providing a win-win-win 
for the community, for our company, 
and for the environment. We are initially 
focusing on projects in developing 
economies in which Apple has small 
loads. Two projects we recently 
launched include a 100-kilowatt 
rooftop solar project at an educational 
facility for disadvantaged children in 
the Philippines, which will benefit from 
offsetting expensive local electricity 
costs; and adding a 50-kilowatt solar 
power system and a 260-kilowatt-hour battery to enable 24/7 electrification of 
an off -grid fishing community in Thailand.
Aggregation
We have continued to expand our 
aggregation efforts to bring together 
multiple buyers in single renewable 
energy transactions to attain economies 
of scale. This aims to assist companies 
in accessing cost-effective renewable 
energy that they might not be able 
to obtain on their own. In 2019, we 
assembled a group of four buyers and 
executed an aggregation contract 
with a 75-megawatt wind project in 
Texas. Our aggregation project in the 
Great Lakes region, completed in 2018, 
achieved commercial operation in 2019.
Energy storage 
The continued advancement of wind 
and solar technology has enabled 
renewable energy to become the most 
cost-effective new source of electricity 
in many parts of the world. Despite the 
increase in the development of wind and  
solar power generation, the intermittent 
nature of the technology has prevented 
further market adoption and continued 
reliance on fossil fuel–powered grids. 
Cost-effective electricity storage, which 
could retain wind and solar power, 
has become the next critical frontier 
in renewable energy. Apple is working 
to advance both short- and long-term 
electricity storage options. In 2019, we executed an agreement to 
deploy a utility-scale battery storage 
system at one of our solar -power 
projects. This system will allow us 
to deliver solar electricity to the grid 
when the electricity is most needed. 
For longer-term storage, we have 
been funding university research into 
biomethanation processes, in which 
biological organisms are harnessed to 
combine CO 2 in wastewater digesters 
with hydrogen to create methane, 
thereby storing renewable electricity 
as renewable natural gas.
Subsidy-free projects
While government subsidies have 
played an important role in increasing 
the availability and affordability of 
renewable electricity, we are now 
pursuing projects that do not receive 
any government subsidies, and therefore 
face no danger of competing claims 
for the renewable energy attributes. 
Our entirely subsidy -free 42-megawatt 
solar photovoltaic project in Denmark 
entered service in late 2019, in time 
to power our new Viborg data center 
with 100 percent renewable energy 
from its first day of operation. We are 
also actively supporting the evolution 
of the Chinese renewable market in its 
transition from subsidized Feed-in-Tariffs 
to non-subsidized grid-parity projects, 
as we pursue new projects to power our 
data centers under construction there. 
This 56-megawatt solar array supports renewable electricity use at our data center in Oregon.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment19 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix2012 2011 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
50,55063,33081,650 75,280 70,46091,700120,800160,390175,930Apple emissions:  Emissions after 
accounting for Apple’s renewable energy 
program (million metric tons CO 2e)
Emissions avoided:  Total emissions 
avoided due to Apple's use of renewable 
energy (million metric tons CO 2e)Apple’s emissions since 2011  
(Scope 1 and scope 2)We’ve already 
reduced emissions
Our transition to renewable energy 
has reduced our scope 1 and 
scope 2 emissions by 71 percent 
since 2011, preventing over 3.6 million 
metric tons of carbon from entering 
the atmosphere over that period—
even as our energy use increased by 
more than 4 times in this same period.That’s equivalent to taking more than 
791,000 cars off the road for one year.7 
For the first time, in 2019, Apple had zero 
scope 2 emissions from electricity. We 
now plan to tackle the remaining scope 1  
emissions through energy efficiency, 
fuel switching, as well as carbon removal 
projects, in addition to purchasing 
carbon credits to offset their impact. 
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment20 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixRenewable electricity 
at supplier facilities
Apple also takes responsibility for the 
carbon emissions associated with 
making our products—nearly half of our 
comprehensive carbon footprint comes 
from electricity used to manufacture our 
products. So, in addition to helping our 
suppliers reduce their energy use, we are 
helping them transition to 100 percent 
renewable electricity.
We launched the Supplier Clean Energy 
Program in October 2015 to advance 
those goals through our manufacturing 
supply chain. Since then, we have made strong progress toward our initial goal 
of bringing online 4 gigawatts of new 
clean energy by 2020. Building on that 
momentum, we recently set a new, 
even more ambitious goal: to transition 
our entire manufacturing supply chain 
to 100 percent renewable electricity 
by 2030.
We’re proud of the progress our suppliers 
have made so far. As of June 2020, 
71 manufacturing partners in 17 different 
countries have committed to 100 percent 
renewable energy for Apple production. 
And Apple itself has continued to invest 
directly in renewable energy projects 
to cover a portion of upstream emissions. The Supplier Clean Energy Program 
now has 7.8 gigawatts of clean energy 
commitments, of which 2.7 gigawatts was 
operational in 2019. Once completed, 
these commitments will avoid over  
14.3 million metric tons of CO 2e 
annually—the equivalent of taking more 
than 3 million cars off the road each year.8 
In fiscal year 2019, renewable energy 
already online generated 5.7 million 
megawatt-hours of clean energy across 
17 countries, resulting in about 4.4 million 
metric tons of carbon emissions avoided 
within our supply chain.
Supplier commitments
As we continue transitioning 
our supply chain to clean energy, 
these 71 suppliers operating 
across 17 countries—including 
28 new commitments in the past 
year—have committed globally 
to producing Apple products 
with 100 percent clean energy.II-VI Incorporated*
3M*
Advanced International Multitech
Amphenol*
Arkema
ASE Technology Holding* 
ATL*
AT&S
Avary Holding* 
Bemis Associates
Biel Crystal (HK) Manufactory Ltd.
BOE
Boyd Corporation*
BYD Electronic (International) 
Company Limited*
Catcher Technology
Compal Electronics
Compeq*
Corning Incorporated
COSMO
Cowell Optics Electronic Ltd.*
Daesang*
Dexerials Corporation*
DSM Engineering Plastics
ECCO LeatherFastway Creation
Flex Ltd.*
Goertek
Golden Arrow
Guangzhou Meadville 
Electronics*
H.B. Fuller
Henkel*
Hon Hai Precision Industry
Hutchinson Technology, Inc.*
IBIDEN Co., LTD.
Jabil
Keiwa Incorporated*
Kersen Science and Technology*
Kunshan KIMD Co., Ltd.* 
LEALEA Enterprise 
Lens Technology
Lingyi iTech*
Lishen  
Luen Fung Group
Luxshare-ICT
Nidec
Nitto Denko Corporation*
OFILM* 
PegatronPhone In Mag-Electronics*
Primax Group
Qorvo
Quadrant
Quanta Computer
RRD
RyPax
SanHuan
SDK
Seiko Advance Ltd.*
Shenghe Resource*
SK hynix*
Solvay 
Sony Semiconductor Solutions* 
STMicroelectronics
Sunway Communication
Sunwoda Electronic
Suzhou Anjie Technology*
Taiyo Holdings Co., Ltd.
tesa SE
TSMC
Wistron
Yuto 
* Suppliers that have committed to 100 percent renewable energy since April 2019.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment21 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixApple’s role
Apple envisions a world where renewable 
energy is cost-effective, reliable, and 
widely available to all. As we work with 
suppliers to grow their use of clean 
energy, we look for ways to achieve 
those broader goals as well:
Demonstrating leadership 
in our suppliers’ markets
The transition to renewable energy 
can require complicated deal 
structures across many regions 
with diverse market designs and 
regulatory requirements. Apple seeks 
to break down that complexity for 
our suppliers by sharing what we’ve 
learned from our investments in 
renewable energy—often in challenging 
markets. For example, we’ve helped 
to develop nearly 500 megawatts of 
solar and wind projects in China and 
Japan to address upstream emissions 
in our supply chain.Connecting suppliers 
to high-quality projects
We develop new tools for our suppliers 
to help execute on their renewable 
energy goals. In many markets where 
we operate, companies have limited 
options to access clean energy. 
To break down that barrier, we created 
the China Clean Energy Fund, which 
enables Apple and our suppliers to invest 
in clean energy projects totaling more 
than 1 gigawatt of renewable energy 
in China. We also connect suppliers 
with opportunities to buy renewable 
energy directly from project developers 
and utilities as those models emerge 
around the globe.
Building clean energy champions
We leverage our own experience and 
bring in leading experts to help our 
supplier partners plot their transitions 
to renewable energy. Following on the 
success of our Supplier Clean Energy 
Portal, which offers training and tools 
for suppliers switching to clean energy, 
in 2019, Apple hosted our first in-person 
training for over 30 suppliers in China.The intensive, two-day training equipped 
suppliers with the market insights, policy 
analysis, and tools needed to drive 
renewable energy solutions—within 
Apple’s supply chain and beyond.
Advocating for strong policy
Suppliers often face regulatory barriers 
to cost-effective renewable energy 
options. Clean energy technology offers 
tremendous benefits to our suppliers, 
to electricity grids, and to countries. 
We believe that when policymakers 
fully value these benefits, clean energy 
becomes more cost-competitive than 
fossil fuel energy. So we actively support 
policies that create cost -effective 
renewable energy markets, and 
we work closely with suppliers and 
other climate-leading companies to 
engage local, regional, and national 
governments. This encourages the 
development of country-specific policies 
that support scalable renewable energy 
solutions, with an impact far beyond 
Apple’s supply chain.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 82020 goal
Toward our 
2030 goalFY16
FY17
FY18
FY19
Gigawatts (GW)Supply chain clean energy progress
Operational
Committed
To ensure that our program achieves the greatest positive impact, we require that all supplier clean energy projects meet stringent social and environmental standards.  
The data above reflects only those projects that meet our strict standards and include only clean energy generated or sourced since Apple’s engagement.  
Operational data is based on our last annual supplier energy survey for fiscal year 2019. Commitments are current as of June 2020.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment22 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixChina Clean 
Energy Fund
In 2018, we created a 
first-of-its-kind investment fund 
in China to connect suppliers 
with renewable electricity 
sources. The fund, which will 
include nearly $300 million from 
10 initial suppliers and Apple, 
will invest in and develop clean 
energy projects totaling more 
than 1 gigawatt of renewable 
electricity in China and will enable 
suppliers to meet their renewable 
electricity commitments.Since 2015, we’ve been engaging with 
manufacturing partners through our Supplier 
Clean Energy Program to help them transition 
to using 100 percent renewable electricity for 
Apple production. While supplier response 
has been tremendous—71 suppliers in just 
five years have made commitments—we’ve 
found that oftentimes, suppliers do not 
have many options for purchasing cost-
effective renewable electricity in their 
market. So we worked with our partners 
to innovate a solution to this problem, 
creating the China Clean Energy Fund.
By virtue of its size and scale, the China 
Clean Energy Fund gives its participants 
the advantage of greater purchasing power 
and the ability to attain more attractive and 
diverse clean energy solutions. The China 
Clean Energy Fund will be managed through 
a third party, DWS Group, which specializes 
in sustainable investments and will also 
invest in the fund. 
In September 2019, we announced the first 
renewable energy investment by the fund: 
two 48-megawatt wind farms in Hunan 
province and a 38-megawatt wind farm 
in Hubei province.These massive wind turbines will help 
to displace polluting fossil fuels, helping 
to clean the air, and provide a timely solution 
for suppliers seeking to cut emissions and 
fight climate change.
The wind farms in Hunan and Hubei provinces 
also support their local economies and 
governments, helping each province reach 
mandated renewable energy goals. In Dao 
County, which is classified a state poverty 
county, the revenues from the construction 
and running of Concord Jing Tang and 
Concord Shen Zhang Tang farms also provide 
important sources of income.
The China Clean Energy Fund offers a timely 
solution for suppliers seeking to act now 
and make a material contribution to the 
climate crisis. However, the need for such a 
fund underscores the importance of strong 
climate policies that enable a diverse set 
of cost -effective solutions for anyone to 
choose from, like direct renewable energy 
procurement. In the meantime, we hope the 
fund can serve as a global model to help 
other companies transition to 100 percent 
clean electricity. Located in Dao County in Hunan, China, the Concord Jing Tang wind farm was developed 
by Concord New Energy Group and produces 48 megawatts of clean energy.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment23 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixIn instances where we cannot reduce the demand for a specific 
process or material, we tackle emissions reduction through 
technological improvements. This could mean point-of -use 
abatement, altering a process to significantly reduce the 
associated emissions, or switching fuels to a low-carbon source. Direct emissions 
abatement
Aluminum smelting 
Aluminum is a key material in many 
of Apple’s products, and, for more 
than 130 years, it has been produced 
through a carbon-intensive smelting 
process. In May 2018, aluminum 
manufacturers Alcoa Corporation 
and Rio Tinto Aluminum announced 
Elysis: a joint venture to commercialize 
patented technology that eliminates 
direct greenhouse gas emissions 
from the traditional smelting process. 
This is a revolutionary advancement 
in the manufacturing of one of the 
world’s most widely used metals. 
As part of Apple’s commitment to 
reducing the environmental impact of 
our products through innovation, we 
helped accelerate the development 
of this technology. And Apple has 
partnered with both aluminum 
companies, and the governments of 
Canada and Quebec, to collectively 
invest a combined $144 million in 
future research and development. 
In December 2019, we announced 
we had bought the first -ever 
commercial batch of carbon- free 
aluminum resulting from this joint 
venture. This aluminum is currently 
being used in the manufacturing 
of the 16-inch MacBook Pro.Lowering fluorinated 
greenhouse gas emissions
Fluorinated gases, such as sulfur 
hexafluoride (SF 6) and nitrogen 
trifluoride (NF 3), are key chemicals 
used in the manufacturing of integrated 
circuit (IC) chips and display panels. 
These gases have high global warming 
potentials when emitted to the 
atmosphere as fluorinated greenhouse 
gas (F-GHG).
Since 2018, we have partnered with 
our IC and display suppliers to better 
understand F-GHG emissions related 
to the manufacturing of Apple products 
and to evaluate emission reduction 
strategies. We encourage our suppliers 
to reduce the F-GHG emissions by 
implementing reduction strategies 
recognized by international and 
industry standards.9
In 2019, we worked with key display 
panel suppliers to establish baseline 
emissions and implement reduction 
strategies. To date, our key display 
suppliers have reduced F-GHG 
emissions by more than 242,000 
annualized metric tons CO 2e.Employee commute 
Even as we shrink the carbon footprint 
of Apple’s facilities, we’re continuing to 
look for ways to reduce carbon emissions 
from employee commuting. We enable 
telecommuting for roles that can 
accommodate it to avoid emissions from 
commuting. For example, our At Home 
Advisor program provides AppleCare 
customer service by Apple employees 
working from their homes. This program 
avoided nearly 22,000 metric tons of 
CO2e emissions in fiscal year 2019—
equal to 11 percent of our employee 
commute footprint. We also offer our 
U.S. employees a transit subsidy of up 
to $100 per month, and we grew our 
bus commute program in Santa Clara 
Valley and China to reduce the use of 
single-occupancy vehicles. At all of our 
campuses in the U.S., we offer a total of 
more than 2300 EV charging stations, 
which help our employees transition 
to electric vehicles. Further, we offer 
campus bicycles and a dedicated bus 
commute program to facilitate employee 
commute through mass transit, which 
we estimate avoided over 6000 metric 
tons in fiscal year 2019.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment24 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is unequivocal in   
calling for carbon removal as essential to limiting global warming to   
1.5 degrees celsius. Natural climate solutions effectively remove carbon 
from the atmosphere, while further benefiting people and the planet, 
by protecting and restoring important ecosystems and natural habitats.Carbon 
removal
Apple has protected and restored 
forests, wetlands, and grasslands 
since 2015. Through our work with 
The Conservation Fund and the World 
Wildlife Fund, we have protected and 
improved the management of over 
1 million acres of forests in China and 
the U.S. In 2018 and 2019, we partnered 
with Conservation International to 
protect and restore a vital mangrove 
ecosystem in Colombia and savanna 
in Kenya. Starting in 2020, we plan 
to scale up our ambition to remove 
atmospheric CO 2 by creating a 
first-of-its-kind fund that will invest 
in the restoration and protection of 
forests and natural ecosystems globally. 
By investing in nature-based carbon 
removal projects, this fund aims to 
cover residual emissions that we believe 
are not otherwise avoidable. And we 
will continue to explore other ways 
to sequester carbon, as technologies 
become available.
Carbon neutrality 
for corporate emissions
We recognize the urgency of tackling 
our contribution to climate change. 
So, in addition to aggressively reducing 
our carbon footprint, beginning 
April 2020, Apple is carbon neutral 
for our corporate emissions, which 
include business travel, employee 
commute, and direct emissions from 
corporate facilities, by investing in 
high-quality projects that protect 
and restore forests, wetlands, and 
grasslands. These include direct 
emissions, like from use of natural gas (scope 1 emissions) as well as emissions 
from our global employees’ commutes 
to work and business travel (scope 
3 emissions), which are difficult to 
avoid today. We’ve also partnered 
with Conservation International to 
identify projects that will protect 
and restore forests, wetlands, and 
grasslands, as projects from our  
fund come online.
Our carbon solutions fund
Forests, wetlands, and grasslands are 
nature’s best tool to remove carbon from 
the atmosphere. When we look at the 
portfolio of solutions that will be required 
to become carbon neutral—not only for 
Apple but for the entire planet—we know 
nature-based solutions will play a critical 
role. To help drive additional capital 
into these essential climate solutions, 
Apple is creating a fund in partnership 
with Conservation International that will 
invest in the restoration and protection of 
forests and natural ecosystems globally. 
We’re aiming to remove 1 to 2 million 
metric tons of carbon dioxide per year in 
the short term, and scaling this up over 
time. By investing in these projects, we 
aim to address residual emissions that 
are not otherwise avoidable today.
This approach is more than buying 
carbon credits—it is an investment in 
nature that provides meaningful returns 
for both the planet and the people who 
invest in it. Over time, we hope others 
will join us in this venture to ensure 
the health and livelihood of these 
key ecosystems.Protecting mangroves 
in Colombia
In 2018, we partnered with Conservation 
International and regional partners—
INVEMAR Research Institute and 
CVS (Corporación autónoma regional 
del Valle del Sinú)—to protect and 
restore a 27,000-acre mangrove 
forest in Colombia, which is expected 
to sequester 1 million metric tons of 
CO2 over the project’s lifetime. These 
mangroves not only protect the coasts 
and help support the livelihood of those 
communities where they grow, they also 
can store up to 10 times more carbon 
than forests on land.
This is because mangroves store 
significant amounts of carbon in the 
soil below the waterline, in addition to 
storing carbon in their roots, leaves, and 
branches like other trees. Our project 
with Conservation International is the 
first “blue carbon” methodology to 
rigorously value the entire mangrove 
system—trees and soil—for its climate 
mitigation value both above and below 
the waterline. We hope this effort will 
encourage the protection of threatened 
mangrove ecosystems globally as 
important resources in the fight 
against climate change.
Conserving savannas in Kenya
In another partnership with 
Conservation International, we are 
restoring degraded savannas in the 
Chyulu Hills region of Kenya, an 
area between three national parks in 
Kenya and just across the border from 
Kilimanjaro National Park in Tanzania.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment25 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixSavanna restoration at scale has 
the potential to remove a significant 
amount of carbon from the atmosphere. 
But because the landscape has become 
degraded through unsustainable land 
use, the soils are unable to sequester 
carbon, and are instead releasing 
carbon dioxide back to the atmosphere. 
In addition, these degraded lands can 
no longer fully support the grazing and 
economic needs of the communities 
in the area: Across the Chyulu Hills, 
overgrazing has left Maasai herders 
without enough food for their livestock. 
The habitat is so degraded that elephants and other wildlife also 
struggle to find sufficient food. In the 
past, a restoration project in an area like 
this might have focused on replanting 
grass and trees. But in partnership 
with Conservation International, we are 
testing a new approach. We are working 
with local partners, including the 
Maasai Wilderness Conservation Trust 
and the Big Life Foundation, to enable 
the landscape to rebound on its own. 
Instead of simply replanting—which 
may not be a sustainable solution—
we are testing social interventions 
to promote regrowth.For example, we are working with 
Maasai herders to implement planned 
grazing practices and governance 
systems which, in combination with 
savanna reseeding, can catalyze 
restoration at the landscape scale.
The initiative is designed to scale 
beyond the Chyulu Hills region. 
There are approximately 900 million 
hectares of degraded rangeland and 
natural savannas across Africa, which 
could adopt this approach—potentially 
removing billions of tons of carbon from 
the atmosphere each year, while also 
benefiting local communities and wildlife.
We’re protecting and restoring 27,000 acres of mangrove forest in Colombia.  
These mangroves support the livelihood of those communities where they grow.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment26 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixLending our 
voice to climate 
advocacy
Last year, inspiring and powerful 
voices challenged the global 
community to confront the 
crisis of climate change. 
This advocacy reframed how 
many see the challenge. The 
scientific community has laid 
out a clear path to mitigating 
the impacts of climate change 
by reducing emissions—and 
provided stark warnings for 
the consequences of inaction. 
In addition to strong actions 
by businesses and individuals, 
we need strong government 
policies that support a just 
climate transition. 
Apple sees this as the foundation of our 
actions on the environment. It also drives our 
climate advocacy and guides how we pursue 
global cooperation. As governments tackle climate change, we 
believe three actions are central to creating 
strong climate policy:
1.  Set strong targets based on science. 
Policymakers should set national or 
regional targets that prevent warming 
of more than 1.5 degrees celsius. 
Key components of meeting these 
targets should include a price on carbon 
and parallel participation in international 
policy negotiation.
2.  Create sector specific policies.  
Limiting warming to 1.5 degrees celsius 
will require action throughout all parts of 
the economy. Governments should create 
sector specific policies to support the 
transition in difficult to decarbonize sectors 
or in sectors that require investments in 
major infrastructure. 
3.  Support a green economy for all.   
Climate policies should have positive, 
long-term fiscal impacts and support the 
development of the new green economy, 
with job opportunities focused on 
advancing clean innovation. 
We have spoken clearly and unambiguously: 
across different forums, in public statements 
and closed-door discussions, and through 
our actions. Whether making known our 
support for the United States upholding its 
obligations under the 2015 Paris Agreement 
or backing a price on carbon, we’re pursuing 
strong policies that promote decarbonizing 
our economy. And in November 2019, 
Apple issued about USD$2.2 billion in green bonds dedicated to projects that 
will reduce our carbon footprint.
We’ve also lent our voice to make 
an immediate impact on policy. In the 
United States, we submitted comments 
urging the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission not to finalize a rule that 
would subsidize fossil fuels, which would 
limit the ability of renewables to compete 
in the electricity market.
In countries where we and our suppliers 
operate, we’re pursuing policies that will 
enable the development of cost-effective 
renewable energy. In Korea and Vietnam, 
we sat with policymakers to advocate for 
energy market reform, including allowing 
businesses to purchase power directly 
from renewable power plants. We’ve held 
roundtables with companies and NGOs to 
identify possible solutions to some of the 
challenges for creating renewable energy 
projects in Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan.  
And we’ve undertaken similar efforts 
in Japan, where we have joined other 
companies to formally encourage the 
Japanese government to promote corporate 
renewable energy use. 
Effective policies that support the 
decarbonization of the global economy 
are essential to tackling the climate crisis. 
Our plan to reach carbon neutrality can help 
show what is possible and reduce risks for 
others, but will not be sufficient without policy 
action. We will continue to lend our voice, 
joining with others to advocate for collective 
action and strong climate positive policies.Decision to 
withdraw from the 
#ParisAgreement was 
wrong for our planet. 
Apple is committed to 
fight climate change 
and we will never waver.Tim Cook
@tim_cook
Tim Cook recently accepted the Ceres 30 Years of Impact Award 
for Apple’s bold sustainability leadership and actions.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment27 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixResources.
To maximize durability, our engineers tested iPhone 11 Pro 
in our Reliability Testing Lab, using rigorous tests that  
accelerate real-world conditions, including water exposure.
2020  Environmental Progress Report28 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix
apple.com/environmentHighlights
Every day at Apple, we’re working to do more with less. 
Our designers and engineers build products not only 
to perform well now, but also to last for years to come. 
11M 58%WAl REEs
PlaSn
Recycled  
rare earth elements
iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, 
and iPhone 11 Pro Max each 
launched with 100 percent 
recycled rare earth elements 
in the Taptic Engine.1Recycled  
aluminum
All aluminum enclosures for new 
iPad, iPhone, Apple Watch, and Mac 
products released in 2019 were made 
with either 100 percent recycled or 
low-carbon primary aluminum.
Our newest  
disassembly robot
Named “Dave,” it disassembles  
modules like the Taptic Engine to  
enable recovery of materials like rare 
earth elements, steel, and tungsten.Recycled  
tungsten
About 22 percent of the tungsten  
used in products shipped in 2019  
came from recycled sources.
Refurbished  
devices
More than 11 million devices were 
sent by Apple to be refurbished for 
new users in 2019, a 42 percent 
increase from the previous year.Recycled  
tin
We expanded our use of 100 percent 
recycled tin in the solder on main 
logic boards to 23 products, including 
Phone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, iPhone 
11 Pro Max, iPad (7th generation), 
and the 16-inch MacBook Pro.
Recycled  
plastics
We introduced more than 100 
components with an average of  
46 percent recycled plastic across 
products released in 2019.
Better  
packaging
We’ve reduced plastics in 
our packaging by 58 percent 
in four years.Zero  
waste
All final assembly sites for iPhone,  
iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, AirPods, 
HomePod, and Apple TV have been 
certified as UL Zero Waste to Landfill.10Our robots, Daisy and Dave, 
disassemble devices to recover 
the important materials our products 
rely on. Our teams closely monitor 
and manage the waste we and 
our suppliers generate—as we 
make progress toward our goal of 
eliminating waste sent to landfill.We live in a world of finite resources. 
We’re not only taking steps to conserve, 
we’re pushing through technical, 
economic, and policy barriers to 
bring solutions to scale. We’ve made 
meaningful progress, and there’s much 
more work to be done.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment29 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixOur
approach
We aim to create products made with 
only recycled and renewable materials. 
To make this monumental shift, we are 
identifying new sources of materials, 
building new supply chains to mobilize 
them, and creating new designs to 
leverage them. And we continually look 
for new ways to build our products that 
reduce the amount of material needed 
overall. By extending the life of our 
products, we help make the most of the 
materials used to make them. We design 
for durability, provide software updates 
and repair support, and refurbish devices 
for new users. Once products reach  
end-of-life, we work with recycling 
partners to recover the most materials 
we can from them.We’re also working hard to design the 
recycling technologies of the future. 
That way, recovered materials can be 
the raw materials of the next product.
Water plays a central role in how we 
build, support, and recycle the products 
we make. That’s why we are working to 
optimize and reduce the overall amount 
of water our operations use, leveraging 
alternative and recycled water sources, 
and carefully managing any water 
discharge. We are also developing 
processes to both drive down the 
amount of waste we create and avoid 
sending it to landfills, particularly items 
that can be reused.This important work extends to our 
facilities and our suppliers—each plays 
an integral role in our business and in 
meeting our conservation goals.
These efforts to conserve resources 
are also interconnected with our other 
priorities. By using recycled materials, 
for example, we’ve lowered product 
carbon footprints. And by using safer 
materials in our designs, we’ve made the 
materials in our products safer and easier 
to recover and recycle.
Materials 
Transition to only recycled or 
renewable materials in our products 
and packaging, and maximize 
material efficiency, product 
longevity, and recovery. Water 
stewardship 
Reduce freshwater use, improve 
the quality of water we discharge, 
and demonstrate leadership by 
protecting shared water resources. Zero waste  
to landfill 
Minimize overall waste generated 
and eliminate waste sent to landfill 
from manufacturing facilities as well 
as corporate offices, data centers, 
and retail stores. Within resources, we focus on three main areas of impact: Businesses like Apple cannot operate without the earth’s 
resources. So we focus on responsibly sourcing the materials 
in our products, and minimizing the water our processes rely 
on and the waste we generate.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment30 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixMaterials 
With linear supply chains, new raw materials are continually 
extracted from the earth and materials from old products are not 
always recovered. We envision a future where our devices are made 
with materials that follow a circular supply chain model—using only 
recycled and renewable sources—eliminating our reliance on mining. 
How we define a circular supply chainBecause we make hundreds of 
millions of products each year, we can 
have a significant positive influence. 
As we tackle the regulatory, design, 
and operational challenges of creating 
circular supply chains, we’re also 
breaking down barriers for others  
to follow.We’re using three different levers to reduce our impact and achieve circularity:
Sourcing and efficiency:  
Finding solutions to source 
recycled and renewable 
materials for our products 
and packaging, and 
using these materials 
more efficiently. And 
we source materials 
responsibly, whether 
from virgin, recycled, 
or renewable sources.Product longevity:  
Making the most of the 
materials we use through 
designing long-lasting 
products. We design 
durable hardware, leverage 
software to extend 
functionality, support a 
broad network of repair 
providers, and refurbish 
devices for their next user.Product end-of-life:  
Enhancing product 
collection and reuse, and 
innovating in recycling, 
so we and others can 
start using old devices as 
the raw material sources 
of the future.
Circular 
supply  
chainSourcing
Use recycled and 
renewable materials
Recovery
Collect and recover materials 
from end-of-lifeEfficiency
Minimize  
material inputs
Longevity
Extend  
product life 
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment31 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAnd we focus on renewable materials 
from biological sources—such as wood 
fiber from trees—that are responsibly 
managed to continually produce without 
depleting the earth’s resources. As we 
switch to sources like these, we work to 
use materials in the most environmentally 
efficient way possible to reduce our 
overall demand.
We’re making steady progress toward 
our goal. Based on supplier reports, 
10 percent of the total material we 
shipped in products in 2019 came from 
either recycled or renewable sources, 
one-third of which has been confirmed 
through third-party certifications. And 
because certain materials have a high 
percentage of recycled content on 
average in the industry—like steel—
the actual amount could be much higher. 
Four products launched in 2019 were 
made of 17 percent or more recycled and 
renewable content, led by MacBook Air 
with Retina display with more than  
40 percent recycled content.
There is still much progress to be made, 
so we continue to responsibly source 
materials by conducting due diligence 
in our supply chain; considering the 
human rights impact on surrounding 
communities; and fostering the same 
opportunities as we do in other parts of 
Apple’s supply chain.We didn’t start with the materials that 
were easiest for transitioning to recycled 
and renewable sources, but with those 
with which we would achieve the most 
significant impact. We extensively 
analyzed the environmental, social, 
and supply impacts associated with 
45 elements and raw materials, 
creating full Material Impact Profiles (PDF)  
for each. These profiles informed our 
prioritization of 14 materials. The priority 
materials are significant not only for their 
impacts, but also because of how much 
we use. Overall, they represented nearly 
90 percent of the total mass shipped 
by Apple in fiscal year 2019.
Aluminum  Plastics
Cobalt  Rare earth elements
Copper  Steel
Glass  Tantalum
Gold  Tin
Lithium  Tungsten
Paper  Zinc
We’ve put a lot of thought into the 
new sources we want to use. We’ve 
created a recycled and renewable 
material specification that aligns with 
international standards and guides 
our suppliers as they source materials. 
And in many cases, we ask our suppliers 
to take the additional step to get 
third-party certifications. For materials 
that can come from either recycled 
or virgin sources, certification confirms 
the recycled content.11 For renewable 
materials, certifications help us confirm 
that the biological source the materials come from, like working forests, can 
continually produce without depleting 
the earth’s resources. Our goal is for 
suppliers to own these certifications, 
so the materials aren’t exclusive to 
Apple, and are available to others.
In just the two years the program 
has been active, we’ve already seen 
a significant impact. More partners 
involved in secondary markets are 
willing to join us, and manufacturers in 
our supply chain are more responsive. 
While we are starting with our material 
use, our aim is much broader: to be a 
part of a world in which recycled and 
renewable materials are available and 
preferred by everyone. That’s why we 
aim to break down barriers for others 
as well, by working on components 
commonly used in our industry, 
by pursuing recycled alternatives at 
prices competitive with virgin material, 
and by engaging policymakers to 
improve global policies that enable 
the use of recycled content.
Apple is committed 
to setting the highest 
standards for responsible 
sourcing of the materials 
used in our products.
Read our 2020 Supplier 
Responsibility Report (PDF).Sourcing and 
efficiency
In 2017, we announced our goal to one day use only recycled and 
renewable materials for our products and packaging—demonstrating 
our commitment to conserve the world’s resources. By using materials 
from recycled sources, we aim to end our reliance on mining. 
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment32 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixThree years ago, a team of eight 
from Apple’s environmental, 
engineering, and procurement 
groups arrived at one of our 
suppliers in China on a mission. 
Could they find a way to recover, 
recycle, and reuse key materials 
that enable our technology?
Many of our greatest innovations rely on 
a small number of earth’s elements. This is 
particularly true of our Taptic Engine, which 
enables tactile feedback from the user 
interface on iPhone and Apple Watch devices. 
The magnets inside these engines account 
for one of the largest concentrations of rare 
earth elements within our iPhone devices. 
However, the processes involved in mining 
these materials are both labor-intensive 
and carry environmental impacts. 
The challenge was clear: Could we create a 
circular supply chain for rare earth elements?
Success would require innovation in several 
areas: processes to manufacture magnets 
made with 100 percent recycled rare earth 
elements that could perform at the high 
level our products demand; the ability to 
recover and recycle rare earth elements; 
and a pathway to achieve all of this at scale. 
To our knowledge, this had never been done.
We started by investigating deep within 
our supply chain—to businesses operating 
far beyond the direct visibility of most original 
equipment manufacturers. It was there that 
our team made a surprising discovery. Not only 
was a recycler collecting the scrap generated 
by rare earth magnet manufacturers, but 
they had developed a process to recycle 
this material for reuse. 
Apple then partnered with a magnet 
manufacturer willing to try something new: 
create a magnet with 100 percent recycled 
rare earth elements.While many magnets contained small 
percentages of recycled rare earth elements 
already—often without final manufacturers 
even knowing—no one had used recycled 
rare earth elements exclusively. Our material 
scientists analyzed our newly manufactured 
magnets to better understand their 
performance. Then we put these magnets 
through our rigorous performance tests—
and they passed. 
But building a high-performing magnet was 
not our only task. We also had to create an 
entire new supply chain solely for recycled 
material. This meant connecting each of the 
players—the recycler, magnet manufacturers, 
component manufacturers, and final assembly 
suppliers. And we created a way to trace the 
third-party certified recycled material through 
each node in the supply chain.
With the help of all our partners, we were 
able to bring our pilot to scale—and 
released our iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, and 
iPhone 11 Pro Max with 100 percent recycled 
rare earth elements in the Taptic Engine.1  
Since last fall, we’ve also expanded the use 
of 100 percent recycled rare earth magnets 
to the AirPods Pro Wireless Charging Case.However, creating a fully circular supply chain 
also means recovering rare earth elements 
from manufacturing scrap and products at 
end-of-life. That’s why we focus on recycling 
innovations as well. While our disassembly 
robot, Daisy, can take apart iPhone devices 
into distinct components, our newest 
disassembly robot, Dave, takes the next step—
disassembling the Taptic Engine to recover 
the rare earth magnets inside. We’ve begun 
deploying Dave robots so that our specialty 
recyclers can recover recycled rare earth 
elements along with other key materials like 
tungsten and steel. 
The challenges of creating a circular 
supply chain for rare earth elements aren’t 
only technical. We’re also working with 
policymakers to address restrictions on the 
movement of electronic waste. Our goal 
is to enable the movement of end-of-life 
materials to best-in-class recyclers without 
compromising necessary safeguards that 
ensure responsible waste disposal. We hope 
regulations can evolve to enable circular 
supply chains while still protecting people 
around the world. Our ambition, for ourselves 
and our industry, is to achieve a future where 
we can create all of our products entirely 
from recycled and renewable materials.Creating a 
circular supply 
chain for rare 
earth elements
In developmentCurrent processCircular supply chain 
for rare earth elementsRare earth 
element recovery
Product useCollectioniPhone 
disassembly 
(Daisy)
iPhone assemblyComponent 
disassembly 
(Dave)
Component 
manufacturing 
(magnets)
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment33 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixMaterial
Where it’s used
Key challenges
ProgressAluminum Cobalt Copper
Enclosures, batteries Batteries Main logic boards, flexible circuit 
boards, enclosure, wireless charging, 
and power adapters
We first addressed technical  
barriers to using recycled aluminum, 
and are now working to mobilize 
supply of high-quality recycled 
content in order to scale our use 
across products.
Creating a new alloy:  
Aluminum accumulates impurities  
as it is recycled, so we designed our   
own 100 percent recycled aluminum 
alloy that can accommodate 
impurities while maintaining the  
finish and durability we require of  
our enclosures. And this alloy can  
be recycled indefinitely while 
maintaining its properties. Based on  
supplier reports, 28 percent of the 
aluminum shipped in our products 
in 2019 came from recycled 
sources—10 percent of which has 
already been third-party certified.
We’ve used 100 percent recycled 
aluminum in the enclosures of iPad 
(7th generation), Apple Watch  
Series 5, MacBook Air with Retina 
display, and Mac mini. We’re sourcing 
this recycled aluminum from Apple’s  
manufacturing scrap, from post - 
industrial sources, and from iPhone 
enclosures recovered from Daisy,  
our disassembly robot.
Glass Gold Lithium Paper
Displays, enclosure Main logic boards, flexible circuit 
boards, camera modulesBatteries Packaging
 Regulatory barriers  
 Contamination  
 Technical properties  
 Scale Regulatory barriers  
 Availability  
 Supply chains  
 Scale Regulatory barriers  
 Technical properties  
 Supply chains Contamination  
 Technical properties  
 Availability  
 Scale Regulatory barriers  
 Transparency Regulatory barriers  
 Availability  
 Supply chains Technical propertiesProgress by material
We face many challenges as we work to transition 
materials to recycled and renewable sources. 
And though we have much to do, we’ve also 
made meaningful progress.
Newly available supply of 
recycled material has enabled us 
to significantly increase our use 
of recycled cobalt.
Expanding use:  
We started by building a supply 
chain with our manufacturing 
scrap and cobalt recovered 
from end-of -life iPhone devices 
disassembled by Daisy. Lithium-ion 
battery recycling has since expanded 
dramatically, making far more 
recycled cobalt available on the 
market. As a result, we’ve secured 
a new supply of recycled cobalt for 
use in future products. As we test different recycled copper 
sources for use in our products, we’re 
also reducing the amount we need 
to build our products.
Making new foils with less copper:  
We’re partnering with our suppliers 
to develop new manufacturing 
processes that use less copper. 
For example, we reduced by 
one- third the copper thickness of 
select foils needed to create a printed 
circuit board (PCB). And since PCBs 
are used across electronics, we are 
helping the industry use less copper, 
starting with our suppliers. 
Using recycled content:  
We’ve begun using 100 percent 
recycled copper in one of the foils 
of our PCBs, which is now being 
shipped with iPhone 11. And we’re 
continuing to test the use of  
recycled copper sources across  
our applications.
Mining material from old devices:  
Our old devices represent another 
source of recycled copper, and our 
specialty recycler is now recovering 
copper from iPhone components 
disassembled by Daisy.Glass is very sensitive to  
impurities, so we are focused 
on minimizing scrap in our glass 
production and maximizing the 
purity of recycled scrap. 
Finding opportunities for reuse:  
We’re digging deep in our supply 
chain to identify opportunities to 
recycle scrap. At the sites where 
our glass is strengthened and 
cut, we are collecting scrap and 
analyzing its properties and material 
composition. With this information, 
we are exploring opportunities 
to reincorporate this scrap into 
new glass melts.As we reduce the amount of gold 
we need, we are working to improve 
transparency in gold supply chains 
so that material can be traced to 
the recycled source.
Reducing use:  
We re-evaluated the plating for the 
printed circuit board of iPhone 11 Pro 
and iPhone 11 Pro Max, reducing the 
amount of the board covered with 
gold plating by 27 percent. 
Enhancing transparency:  
While gold is recovered at high rates 
from products at end-of-life, virgin 
and recycled sources are mixed by 
the time they get to market. We are 
working with upstream gold refiners 
to identify and track recycled gold 
to its source—improving traceability 
both in our supply chain and in the 
broader industry.
Finding creative recycled sources:  
We’ve begun using flexible circuits 
manufactured using gold salts 
recovered from 100 percent 
recycled gold waste. Our old devices 
represent another source of recycled 
gold, and our specialty recycler is 
now recovering gold from iPhone 
components disassembled by Daisy.Technology exists to recycle 
lithium from batteries and is rapidly 
becoming more economically viable. 
We are working to identify new 
sources of recycled lithium and test 
their performance in our applications. 
We also continue to search for and 
partner with recyclers who can 
recover lithium at high rates from our 
end-of-life products, so that we can 
contribute recycled material back 
to the market.We’ve maintained our circular supply 
chain for paper, by sourcing from 
recycled and renewable sources and 
by creating as much responsibly 
sourced fiber as we are using. 
Sourcing responsibly:  
100 percent of the wood fiber 
in our packaging comes from 
recycled sources or responsibly 
managed forests.12
Regrowing forests:  
We’re protecting or creating enough 
responsibly managed forests to 
cover all the wood fiber we use in 
our packaging. This helps us ensure 
we are not taking away from, but 
instead growing the world’s supply.
Enhancing recyclability:  
All the retail boxes for our products 
can be recycled at standard paper 
recycling facilities. And we are 
continuing to transition internal 
packaging trays to model fiber 
or other fiber-based solutions to 
enhance recyclability even further. Key challenges to creating circular supply chains:
Regulatory barriers 
Certain regulations—even 
when originally intended 
to create environmental 
protections—inadvertently 
inhibit the ability to recover 
materials from scrap, end-of-life 
products, and parts for use in 
new products.Contamination  
The manner in which materials 
recovered for recycling can 
impact the composition of the 
material, reducing its purity 
and usability. Technical properties 
Recycled or renewable material 
may have unique technical 
properties that need to be 
accounted for in product design.Availability  
End-of-life products and 
industrial sources of scrap for 
recycling may not be readily 
available, constraining the supply 
of recycled material. And the 
production of renewable material 
is sometimes limited. Supply chains  
Recycled or renewable 
content may not be easily 
accessible on the market, 
requiring the development 
of new supply chains. Transparency 
Information about the source 
of materials—whether mined, 
recycled, or renewable—may 
not be readily available. Scale  
Identifying and mobilizing 
high-quality recycled or 
renewable materials to scale 
use across our products.34 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry
apple.com/environment34
2020  Environmental Progress Report Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixMaterial
Where it’s used
Key challenges
ProgressPlastics Rare earth elements Steel
Enclosures, speakers, 
keyboards, and many 
other componentsMagnets in speakers, receivers, 
Taptic Engine, cameras, 
and enclosures Enclosures, cases, screws, 
structural components, 
and other small parts
Though plastics typically lose 
performance with mechanical 
recycling cycles, we’ve continued 
to advance the performance we 
can achieve with recycled plastics 
across applications. 
Scaling recycled content:  
In products released in 2019, 
we introduced more than 100 parts 
with an average of 46 percent 
recycled plastic content. This 
includes recycled materials with 
advanced capabilities: in partnership 
with our suppliers, we’ve developed 
a plastic with over 35 percent 
recycled content that offers the 
advanced acoustic properties 
needed for speakers. We’ve also 
introduced plastics with the strength 
and resilience needed for protective 
cases—made with about 40 percent 
recycled content.
Switching to bio-based sources:  
We’ve introduced plastic made  
from bio-based content rather than 
fossil fuels on 38 components in 
2019. And while this is an important 
step, we continue to pursue 
certifications as we transition  
to renewable materials.
Tantalum Tin Tungsten Zinc
Capacitors Main logic boards, flexible 
circuit boardsTaptic Engine Power adapters, main logic boards
 Regulatory barriers  
 Contamination  
 Technical properties  
 Transparency Regulatory barriers  
 Supply chains  
 Scale Regulatory barriers  
 Contamination  
 Technical properties Regulatory barriers  
 Availability Regulatory barriers  
 Scale Regulatory barriers  
 Technical properties Technical properties  
 Supply chains  Progress by material
By investigating deep into our  
supply chain, we identified sources 
of recycled rare earth elements, 
proved that 100 percent recycled 
content could be used in our 
magnets, and continue to scale 
across our products. 
Using 100 percent recycled 
rare earth magnets:  
Last fall, we released iPhone 11, 
iPhone 11 Pro, and iPhone 11 Pro 
Max with 100 percent recycled rare 
earth elements in the Taptic Engine.1 
And we’ve since expanded to other 
products, releasing the AirPods 
Pro Wireless Charging Case with 
100 percent recycled rare earth 
elements in the magnets. 
Designing new technologies 
for recovery:  
We’ve created a new disassembly 
robot, Dave, to extract rare  
earth magnets from Apple Watch  
and iPhone components. This   
enables our recycling partner 
to recover high-purity rare 
earth elements and other 
important materials.Stainless steel is highly 
recyclable and often recycled. 
Our challenge is to optimize our 
material efficiency and identify 
high-purity recycled sources. 
Reducing use:  
We’ve implemented a new process 
that allows us to reduce the amount 
of steel needed to make the iPhone 
11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max 
enclosure—enhancing material 
efficiency by 30 percent compared 
to traditional methods. 
Mobilizing high-quality supply:  
We’ve also enhanced the collection 
of our high-quality steel scrap for 
use in future products, and we 
continue testing recycled steel 
to ensure we can use it while still 
maintaining performance. The market for recycled tantalum 
exists since it is a valuable and highly 
recovered material. Our challenge is 
to build new supply chains to source 
100 percent recycled content at 
the scale needed for our products. 
And because tantalum is not often 
recovered from electronics at 
end-of-life, we are continuing to 
pursue recycling innovations.Expanding use:  
We’ve released 23 products with 
100 percent recycled tin in the 
solder of their main logic boards, 
including iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, 
and iPhone 11 Pro Max, as well as 
iPad (7th generation) and the 16-inch 
MacBook Pro. We continue to scale 
our use, expanding to accessories 
like the 18W Power Adapter and the 
AirPods Pro Wireless Charging Case. 
In total, 15 percent of the tin shipped 
in our products in 2019 came from 
recycled sources.
Mining material from old devices:  
We’ve begun shipping end-of-life 
iPhone components from Daisy to 
specialty recyclers that will recover 
tin, which is often lost in traditional 
electronic waste recycling.Tungsten is used in many industries 
where it is highly recovered at 
end-of-life, but this isn’t the case in 
our industry. Our challenge is to prove 
we can use high concentrations of 
recycled content—up to 100 percent 
in any single application—while 
maintaining performance and 
recover it at end-of-life. 
Introducing recycled content:  
More than 22 percent of the tungsten 
in products shipped in 2019 came 
from recycled sources. And we are 
currently identifying and rigorously 
testing the use of recycled content 
across more of our products. 
Designing new technologies 
for recovery:  
Our new disassembly robot, Dave, 
can extract tungsten from iPhone 
and Apple Watch components, 
so our recycling partner can 
recover high-quality tungsten 
from end-of -life devices.Because zinc can accumulate 
impurities during recycling, we 
are searching for new, high-purity 
sources of supply for our 
manufacturers. And we continue 
to rigorously test recycled material, 
to make sure we can use recycled 
sources without compromising 
product performance.continued
Regulatory barriers 
Certain regulations—even 
when originally intended 
to create environmental 
protections—inadvertently 
inhibit the ability to recover 
materials from scrap, end-of-life 
products, and parts for use in 
new products.Contamination  
The manner in which materials 
recovered for recycling can 
impact the composition of the 
material, reducing its purity 
and usability. Technical properties 
Recycled or renewable material 
may have unique technical 
properties that need to be 
accounted for in product design.Availability  
End-of-life products and 
industrial sources of scrap for 
recycling may not be readily 
available, constraining the supply 
of recycled material. And the 
production of renewable material 
is sometimes limited. Supply chains  
Recycled or renewable 
content may not be easily 
accessible on the market, 
requiring the development 
of new supply chains. Transparency 
Information about the source 
of materials—whether mined, 
recycled, or renewable—may 
not be readily available. Scale  
Identifying and mobilizing 
high-quality recycled or 
renewable materials to scale 
use across our products.Key challenges to creating circular supply chains:35
apple.com/environment35
2020  Environmental Progress Report Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixProduct  
and accessory 
environmental features
iPhone 11
100%
recycled rare 
earth elements
in the Taptic Engine, 
a first for a smartphone 
100%
recycled 
tin
in the solder of the 
main logic board
30% or more
recycled 
plastic
in 4 componentsiPad (7th generation)
100%
recycled 
aluminum
in the enclosure 
100%
recycled 
tin
in the solder of  
the main logic board
70%  or more
recycled 
plastic  
in 3 componentsAirPods Pro
100%
recycled rare 
earth elements
in the magnets of the 
wireless charging case 
100%
recycled 
tin
in the solder of the main 
logic board of the wireless 
charging case
35% or more
recycled or 
bio-based  
plastic in 4 components  
in AirPods Pro
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment36 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAt Apple, we’re focused on 
creating groundbreaking product 
experiences. From the moment 
a customer opens the box and 
holds the product in their hands 
for the first time. 
Last year, those who purchased our 
newly designed Mac Pro encountered 
another design innovation: packaging 
that was made almost entirely out of 
fiber.13 This honeycomb-shaped design 
made primarily from recycled fiber was the 
work of our packaging engineering team. 
It embodies our goal to eliminate plastics 
by 2025, increase our use of recycled 
and renewable materials, and enhance 
the recyclability of our packaging.
With Mac Pro, our packaging designers set 
out to tackle a unique challenge. How do we 
replace the plastic foam typically used to 
protect our Mac devices with a fiber-based 
alternative? Plastic foam is both lightweight 
and resilient as packing material, but it also 
contributes to waste.A fiber alternative not only could be sourced 
from recycled content, but could also be 
recycled by the consumer. But fiber had yet 
to show durability characteristics comparable 
to foam: the ability to spring and release 
multiple times to absorb the G-forces from 
the bumps on drops experienced in transit. 
Teams got creative and took inspiration 
from the world around them, including the 
design of motorcycle suspension systems. 
Through iterative cycles of design and 
testing, the packaging engineering team 
fabricated a fiber-based design that could 
withstand the rigors of shipping. Most 
importantly, once the packaging had outlived 
its use, it could be more easily recycled.
We’re continuing to make progress toward 
eliminating plastics in packaging across all 
products. Since 2015, we’ve reduced our 
plastic used in our packaging by 58 percent. 
The launch of iPhone 7 marked our first 
device with majority-fiber packaging. 
This involved replacing two plastic trays that 
protected the iPhone and accessories with a 
single one crafted from molded fiber, as well 
as creating a paper origami-style alternative 
to the plastic packaging around the EarPods. 
We’ve since carried those innovations over 
to all of our iPhone and iPad devices, most 
recently iPad mini. And our new 16-inch 
MacBook Pro comes packed with an internal 
paper tube in the box wall structure designed 
for cushioning—an innovation that allowed 
us to cut the plastic used by 83 percent.And as we transition to primarily 
fiber -based packaging, we make sure the 
fiber is responsibly sourced as well. Again 
in 2019, 100 percent of the wood fiber in 
our packaging came from recycled sources 
or responsibly managed forests.12
We’ve also taken direct steps to 
support the responsible production of 
wood fiber. Through our partnerships with 
The Conservation Fund and the World Wildlife 
Fund, we have improved the management 
of more than 1 million acres of working forests 
in the United States and China. For the fourth 
year in a row, the responsibly produced fiber 
from forests we’ve helped to protect equals 
the amount of the virgin paper we use in all 
of our packaging.14 We continue to invest in 
the protection and restoration of forests to 
deliver both a carbon benefit and increase  
the availability of responsible forestry 
products to the world.
Packaging fiber and plastic footprint* (metric tons)
We’ve reduced plastic in our packaging by 58 percent in the past four years. And since 2017, 
100 percent of the virgin wood fiber used in our packaging has come from responsible sources.
21%
165,000 2016
49%
30%169,000 2017
56%14%
30%187,000 201810%
58%
32%189,000 20198%
59%
33%
171,500 2015
48%
31%21%Improving our 
packaging and 
protecting 
forests
Plastic Recycled fiber Responsibly sourced virgin fiber**For more information, 
read our white paper 
on Apple’s Paper and 
Packaging Strategy (PDF). 
*  These data include the materials used in our packaging. Fiber used at our corporate facilities represents less than 1 percent of our overall fiber use.
**  Since 2017, all of the virgin wood fiber used in our packaging has come from responsible sources. Responsible sourcing of wood fiber is defined in Apple’s Sustainable Fiber Specification (PDF).  
We consider wood fibers to include bamboo. 
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment37 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixOur products are built to play a vital role in the daily lives of our customers. 
We also design each device to make the most of the resources we use to 
create them. That is why we build our products to withstand what life might 
throw at them, we offer new features and functionality with each software 
update, and we provide access to high-quality repair. Product 
longevity
Each of these goals comes with 
challenges. We take a holistic 
approach that optimizes for longevity 
and is adapted to the way each device 
will be used. And the results are clear: 
iPhone holds its value longer than  
other smartphones. Long-lasting 
products are not only good for the planet, 
they’re also good for our customers. 
Having a product that lasts is important 
to our customers, and we believe that it 
makes customers more likely to choose 
Apple in the future. Durability is a principle 
of good design
Durability is central to the Apple product 
design. We aim to create devices that 
endure the rigors of everyday use. 
And we seek to reduce the need for 
maintenance and repairs. Our designs 
are optimized for this. The engineers 
in our Reliability Testing Lab assess 
each design decision—from materials 
to components, to final product and 
packaging—for real-world performance.Our teams start with in-depth user 
studies. They look closely at repetitive 
actions and interactions: picking up and 
setting down a device, repeated use of 
an individual key, and what might scratch 
a device inside a handbag or pocket. 
What we learn through these studies 
drives our design decisions, which 
vary depending on how the product 
will be used. 
*  iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max are splash, water, and dust resistant and were tested under controlled laboratory conditions with a rating of IP68 under IEC standard 60529 (maximum depth of 4 meters 
up to 30 minutes). Splash, water, and dust resistance are not permanent conditions and resistance might decrease as a result of normal wear. Do not attempt to charge a wet iPhone; refer to the user guide 
for cleaning and drying instructions. Liquid damage not covered under warranty.
** For select common liquids.
*** Includes repairs performed in retail stores, Apple Authorized Service Providers, and mail-in locations.
iPhone (1st generation) 2007 iPhone 11 Pro 2019
Durability
Water resistant*–
Dust resistant –
Spill resistant**–
Repairable onsite***
Display –
Battery –
Speaker –
Haptics –
Rear camera –
SIM trayiPhone longevity journey
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment38 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixFor example, customers may use their 
iPad devices in many different venues—
whether at home, on a subway, or in a 
park. So we created the durable unibody 
construction. And our users run, swim, 
and bike with their Apple Watch, so we 
optimized our Apple Watch designs for 
water and sweat resistance. 
In our Reliability Testing Lab, we subject 
our product prototypes to rigorous 
testing to ensure our designs achieve 
our goals. Our engineers re-create 
and accelerate real-world settings, 
including using a chamber to simulate 
UV exposure and corrosive seaside 
conditions like “Salt Fog.” Other tests 
shock, drop, and tumble products, going 
to extremes beyond the impulses and 
contact that a device might experience 
during typical use. And our team has 
developed more than 100 proprietary 
tests that exceed industry standards. 
Thousands of prototypes are evaluated, 
and all the results are shared directly 
with the design teams to inform how 
each product is built.
iPhone 11 illustrates some of the choices 
we’ve made to help devices withstand the 
conditions our customers subject them 
to. It was designed to take spills from 
ordinary liquids, and to be water, dust,  
and splash resistant (rated IP68 under  
IEC standard 60529).Accessible, reliable, and 
high-quality repairs give 
products new purpose
We aim to avoid the need for repair in the 
first place. But when a repair is needed, 
there should be safe, dependable options 
available to bring a device back to its best 
possible performance. 
Our more than 5000 Apple Store and 
Apple Authorized Service Provider 
(AASP) locations offer repair services to 
customers both in-person and by mail. 
And we’ve trained more than 265,000 
technicians to help service and support our 
products, continually certifying our retail 
employees and channel partners in tools 
and techniques to repair devices, and avoid 
unnecessary service or part replacement.
We have recently made significant 
improvements in expanding customer 
access to repair services. Through the 
launch of our Independent Provider Repair 
program, we are providing independent 
repair businesses—large or small—with the 
same genuine parts, tools, training, repair 
manuals and diagnostics as AASPs. There 
is no cost to join the program, training is 
free, and genuine parts are offered at the 
same cost as to AASPs. In the U.S., 700 
locations across all 50 states are already 
participating in the program, and we've 
also expanded the program to Europe 
and Canada as well. We've also broadened the reach of Apple 
authorized service repair. Through a 
partnership with Best Buy, we added 1,000 
more AASP locations in 2019, tripling the 
number of U.S. AASP locations compared 
to three years ago. These programs mean 
it’s easier than ever for our customers to 
access the service and support they need. 
We've also made design choices so that 
products are easier to repair. Mac Pro, for 
example, was created with an aluminum 
housing that offers 360 degrees of access, 
and a dual-sided logic board that allows 
for components to be easily added or 
removed. For our iPhone devices, we’ve 
utilized stretch release adhesives, which 
securely hold the battery during use 
yet can be swiftly debonded by service 
partners to install replacements.
There’s still work to be done. But we 
continue to make progress along this 
journey. And we do this because making 
repairs more convenient and reliable is 
directly aligned with our goal of creating 
long-lasting products that maximize 
the resources we use.
Apple authorized service providers
Retail stores
Independent repair providersGlobal repair locations 
Accurate as of July 2020
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment39 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixOngoing software  
support extends the life  
of each device
We continually upgrade our operating 
systems to include powerful features like 
Dark Mode, and support for advanced 
augmented reality, as well as essential 
updates that enhance security and 
privacy features. We make these freely 
and widely available. That way, the latest 
features and security updates reach 
more users, whether they’re using the 
latest Apple device or an earlier model. 
This also means our community of app 
developers can design for our newest 
operating systems and reach more users.
Our customers value this approach. 
We see this clearly in the adoption rates 
of our operating systems. By January 
2020, we already had 70 percent of 
all users running iOS 13.15 iPad users 
showed a similar preference for software 
updates—with 57 percent on the most 
recent release of iPadOS. And for iPad 
devices introduced in the last four years, 
79 percent were running our latest major 
version of iPadOS.15By designing both the hardware and 
software, we can optimize our operating 
systems to support the broadest range 
of products and help our customers 
get more out of the devices they 
already own. iOS 13, for example, is 
compatible with devices going back to 
2015. There’s an important balance we 
try to strike with each new update: to 
deliver the latest technologies our new 
hardware enables while being inclusive 
to prior generations of devices. This 
includes 2019 updates to macOS and 
iPadOS, which support devices from 
2012 and 2014, respectively. Each 
new software update is validated and 
optimized for each model of our devices, 
so that when we release an update, we 
maintain our high levels of performance.
Refurbishing devices for 
second and third owners
We collect and refurbish used 
devices through Apple Trade In, our 
iPhone Upgrade Program, AppleCare, 
and, inside Apple, our Hardware Reuse 
Program for employees. Altogether, 
we refurbished 11.1 million devices 
for new users in 2019, representing 
a 42 percent increase from 2018.That isn’t simply a statistic to us. 
Each refurbished device represents 
a smarter and more environmentally 
efficient use of the resources and 
materials we rely on to build our products. 
And it further demonstrates that our 
products possess the high level of 
durability and desirability required to be 
embraced by second and third owners.
Our Apple Trade In program allows 
customers in 25 countries to walk into an 
Apple Store or go online to trade in their 
devices. Through the iPhone Upgrade 
Program, customers return their existing 
devices before upgrading to the latest 
model. These devices are refurbished 
and passed on to a new user. We also 
collect and refurbish devices through 
AppleCare and our employee Hardware 
Reuse Program. For devices at the end 
of their life, we’ll recycle each free of 
charge. The success of these programs 
belongs to our customers. Their efforts 
identify the value of our products and 
help get the most from each device, 
and from the resources inside.
iPhone batteries are held in place by stretch 
release adhesives that can be swiftly debonded 
by service partners to install replacements.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment40 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixWhat happens to Apple products once they reach end-of-life is our 
responsibility. When a device can no longer function as originally intended, 
its parts and accessories may still have more to give. So we recover these 
and get creative about the ways we can best reuse them. And for the parts 
that cannot be reused, we are designing new technologies to unlock the 
useful materials inside them. By effectively reusing and recycling products, 
we can all help keep the world’s resources in use. Product  
end-of-life
Reuse is our first choice
When a device as a whole no longer 
functions, we first aim to recover and 
reuse the parts inside that still work. 
One of the simplest ways to reuse a 
part is in another device. Recovered 
parts that are refurbished and tested 
to our stringent standards can be used 
as replacement parts for devices being 
repaired. This keeps quality parts in use 
while also reducing the number of spare 
parts we need to build.
We also find creative ways to use 
accessories in new applications. 
For example, we piloted a program to 
collect and ship recovered Apple cables 
and power adapters to manufacturing 
sites in Texas and Brazil, where they 
will be used to power production 
lines. This both extends the life of 
existing cables and reduces the 
need for new ones, for cost savings 
and an environmental win. 
For other reuse programs, we’ve gotten 
even more creative. In many end-of -life 
devices, we’ve found integrated circuits 
that still deliver industry-leading 
processing, memory, and storage 
capabilities. We realized our developers 
could use these devices instead of new 
ones as they design and test apps and 
software—from developing the latest iOS to enhancing machine learning 
and artificial intelligence. We’ve piloted 
a program deploying thousands of 
end-of -life devices—including iPhone, 
iPad, Mac mini, and Apple Watch—for 
use by developers at our R&D sites and 
data centers. All these devices continue 
to perform in the most high-value form 
possible, before finally being recycled 
for raw materials. 
We have much more progress to make. 
But across our company, we are building 
systems to help promote creative 
thinking and the collaboration needed 
for more reuse opportunities like these.
Recycling innovations 
unlock more key resources 
Recycling represents the final, essential 
piece of creating circular supply 
chains. But the recycling industry 
faces significant challenges, from very 
diverse streams of waste to low margins 
on some materials. That’s why we’re 
partnering with recyclers, academic 
institutions, and other stakeholders to 
make sure materials are recovered in the 
highest quantities with the technologies 
available now, and to invent the recycling 
capabilities of the future. Offering the best 
recycling available now
We aim to make recycling as accessible 
as possible to our customers. That’s 
why we offer and participate in product 
take-back and recycling collection 
programs for 99 percent of the countries 
where we sell products. In total, these 
programs directed 47,000 metric tons 
of e-waste to recycling globally in 2019. 
We’ve set up systems for collecting and 
recycling Apple products from iMac Pro 
to Apple Card. As new Apple products 
are developed, we create recycling 
programs for these too. We also care 
about how our devices get recycled. 
We hold our recycling partners to high 
standards for environment, health, safety, 
and security. In 2019, we conducted 
more than 60 audits globally on issues 
relating to environment, health, and 
safety—and we performed additional 
audits relating to security. We also look 
beyond our own recycling activities. 
In 2019, we supported U.S. nonprofit 
The Recycling Partnership’s creation 
of educational guides to promote proper 
disposal of e-waste and lithium-ion 
batteries. These guides will be made 
freely available to local governments 
to encourage better recycling in 
communities across the United States.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment41 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixImproving disassembly
Traditional recycling technology can 
recover certain valuable materials—
like gold and cobalt—at very high 
rates. However, often these recycling 
techniques—like shredding to separate 
materials quickly—mean certain 
materials get lost in the process or 
downcycled for use in lower-quality 
applications. That’s why we are working 
to take our products apart with the same 
intention that we put them together. 
Our Material Recovery Lab (MRL) in 
Austin, Texas, is the center of our work 
to enhance recycling technology. At the 
MRL, both Apple engineers and interns 
from colleges and universities develop 
tools and methods to improve the way 
our recyclers process our devices. For 
example, at our MRL, we’ve invented a 
semiautomated jig for even more efficient 
AirPods disassembly. We rigorously test 
these tools before deploying them across 
recycling networks.
Another area of our work focuses 
on designing the automation that can 
revolutionize the way our devices are 
taken apart.Our iPhone disassembly robot, Daisy, 
continues to work hard at the MRL 
in Austin as well as at our site in the 
Netherlands. Daisy can separate the 
individual components of 15 different 
models of iPhone so that recyclers can 
recover more important materials and at 
a higher quality than traditional recycling 
technologies. Daisy receives iPhone 
devices from our AppleCare and Trade 
In programs as well as from partner 
programs with Best Buy in the U.S. and 
KPN in the Netherlands. Modules from 
Daisy are already making their way to 
recyclers. And the results are impressive: 
A recycler recovered the same amount of 
copper and gold from 1.4 metric tons of 
Daisy modules as can be extracted from 
more than 150 metric tons of mined ore.
While Daisy can disassemble devices 
into components, select components 
require additional disassembly to enable 
material recovery. So we invented Dave, 
our newest disassembly robot, to take 
apart individual components. So far, 
Dave can disassemble the Taptic Engine 
for greater recovery of materials like rare 
earth elements, tungsten, and steel.By processing 800 modules an hour, 
just one single Dave robot can go 
a long way for a recycler. Dave is 
being deployed at one of our key 
recycling partners, who is part of the 
circular supply chain for the recycled 
rare earth elements we use in our 
iPhone magnets today.
Creating the next 
generation of recycling
Our third recycling initiative focuses on 
what the future of recycling could be—
with technology that allows recyclers 
to process high volumes of diverse and 
increasingly complex electronic waste. 
In a partnership with Carnegie Mellon 
University, we’re applying machine 
learning to help address part of this 
recycling challenge. Researchers are 
developing methods to train automated 
systems to sort waste in real-time and 
learn as they go—so the technology 
can evolve as waste streams do. 
Any software created from this joint 
initiative will be open-sourced to help 
better support e-waste recycling 
around the world.
We recycled 47,000 metric 
tons of e-waste in 2019
Apple and our recycling 
partners are focused on:
• Maximizing material 
recover rates
• Protecting privacy
• Maintaining standards for 
environment, health, safety, 
and security
Learn how to trade in or 
recycle your device 
Daisy can disassemble 15 different models of iPhone into discrete components so that recyclers 
can recover more materials and at higher quality than traditional recycling techniques.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment42 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixWe’re making progress 
toward a greener future. 
Our next goal: making 
products without mining 
materials #EarthDay 
apple.com/environment Tim Cook
@tim_cook
Apple envisions a world where 
we can make products without 
taking from the earth, using 
only recycled and renewable 
materials in our products.
We’ve made significant progress toward 
our goal—like using 100 percent recycled 
aluminum in the enclosure of our 2019 
MacBook Air with Retina display and  
Mac mini devices, and using 100 percent 
recycled rare earth elements in the 
Taptic Engine of iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro, 
and iPhone 11 Pro Max.1 To further our 
progress, we’re looking to increase the 
use of scrap materials recovered from 
our supply chain and from end-of-life 
products to make new products. 
In pursuing that goal, we’ve learned that 
there are some significant obstacles to 
building circular supply chains—those 
that collect, process, and reintroduce 
secondary materials from manufacturing 
scrap and products at the end of their useful 
lives. One set of obstacles are actually 
policies that were written to address the negative impacts of waste, but now have 
the unintended consequence of limiting 
the movement of materials for recovery 
and reuse. Waste shipment regulations offer 
important protections to people and the 
environment around the world. They were 
created to respond to the dumping of waste 
in particularly vulnerable communities. 
We believe there’s an important opportunity 
to strengthen these regulations to maintain 
and improve these protections while enabling 
new, clean economies based on circular 
movement of materials. Retooling these 
regulations can make circular supply chains 
more competitive with traditional linear supply 
chains—by responsibly fostering recycled 
material supply flexibility and competition.
We’ve learned that we need to level the 
playing field for circular supply chains if 
we want recovered materials to replace 
primary materials in manufactured goods 
at scale. It turns out that in many cases, 
it is easier to move materials newly mined 
from the earth around global supply chains 
than it is to move materials for recycling. For 
example, bauxite rocks—roughly 20 to 25 
percent of which will turn into aluminum and 
which require mining, crushing, chemical 
processing, and smelting—move more 
easily than iPhone enclosures separated 
by Daisy and containing 95 percent 
already smelted aluminum. This means 
that responsible recycled material supply 
chains are often harder to establish and 
cost more to operate, even though they 
can have much lower environmental impacts. It also means that recoverable materials are 
often diverted to less responsible or lower-
quality recycling or disposal pathways.
As we’ve expanded our collection of 
materials from our disassembly robot, Daisy, 
we’ve sought to redirect this material back 
into our supply chain. In the process, we 
learned that it can sometimes take years 
to secure the necessary approvals to ship 
components recovered from Daisy. This is 
because policies can treat these materials 
the same as hazardous waste headed for 
landfill, even though they are destined for 
a responsible material recovery operation. 
There is an opportunity to strengthen policy 
to encourage the recovery of material for 
reuse in manufacturing, and to improve the 
economics of activities that can reduce 
the waste burden to begin with. Without 
this policy innovation, circular supply 
chains will remain niche projects, unable 
to truly scale in a way that competes with 
dynamic, global, and linear supply chains. 
Protections surrounding the movement of 
hazardous waste are paramount. Recovering 
resources for reuse is paramount. We are 
obligated to innovate in determining how 
to do both simultaneously. Thinking of waste 
as a resource requires a paradigm change 
and a collaborative approach between NGOs, 
industries, and governments around the 
world. We are eager to continue to collaborate 
with others in pursuit of these opportunities.Advocating for 
policies that 
enable resource 
recoveryApple envisions a world where we can “make but not take,” 
using only recycled and renewable materials to create our products.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment43 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixWe give a lot of thought to how we use water at Apple. That’s in 
part because we work in communities around the world that relate 
differently to this precious resource—whether in a water abundant 
environment like Cork, Ireland, or regions that experience water 
scarcity like Mesa, Arizona. Water stewardship
Our operations use water in many 
different ways, from our relatively 
low-impact retail stores to our data 
centers and suppliers’ manufacturing 
facilities, which rely more heavily 
on water. And, as climate change 
impacts global water resources, 
we’re experiencing the effects 
across different environments. 
This helps us see water in a global 
context. It’s the most fundamental 
resource to life on this planet. And it 
is also essential to our growth as a 
company. To use water responsibly 
requires different approaches for 
different contexts. And because it is 
a resource shared by many, our efforts 
go beyond our own immediate business 
needs and into the communities 
where we work to care for, replenish, 
and share freshwater resources.
Our impact drives our efforts
The first step in developing our water 
strategy is to understand how we use it. 
The scarcity of freshwater impacts 
communities around the world—and 
this drives the urgency around our effort 
to use this resource more efficiently. 
Our corporate facilities utilize water for 
construction, sanitation, and climate 
control. During the manufacturing 
process, our suppliers process and 
clean our products with water.We continually examine our usage 
in each of these contexts. We look 
beyond our local footprint to the impact 
on the region, our supply chain, and 
global resources. We rely on globally 
recognized tools—including the 
Aqueduct tool from the World Resources 
Institute and the World Wildlife Fund’s 
Water Risk Filter—and our knowledge of 
local conditions to help us evaluate water 
risks in the communities where we work.
Rigorous measurement is an essential 
part of this process. We look at the 
patterns of usage at our retail stores, 
corporate facilities, and data centers,  
and engage our suppliers in measuring 
their water use. We engage beyond our  
direct suppliers, going deeper into our 
supply chain. This allows us to prioritize 
the manufacturers of modules that 
involve a water-intensive production 
process or those that create wastewater 
that needs to be rigorously managed. 
And this analysis informs our business 
decisions and allows us to develop a 
cohesive water engagement strategy. 
We’re able to match our most urgent 
efforts with the areas in greatest 
need. We continue to direct our 
attention to Apple locations in Maiden, 
North Carolina, Mesa, Arizona, and 
in California’s Santa Clara Valley, 
areas of elevated water risk, which 
also account for more than half of 
our facilities-based water use.Among our suppliers, we have identified 
more than 100 top sites where we are 
providing onsite tools, training, and water 
engineering to reduce our usage.
This poses a continuous challenge—
which we’re committed to addressing. 
Our strategy on improving water 
use at our facilities and suppliers 
remains consistent:
• Using water efficiently to reduce 
overall consumption.
• Expanding use of alternative 
water sources.
• Discharging water responsibly.
• Enhancing our water stewardship 
to keep watersheds healthy for 
all who rely on them.
We’re focused on progress. At Apple 
facilities, we work to design for and 
optimize our use of water. With our 
suppliers, we work from established 
baseline assessments to drive technical 
support for water-saving measures—
and monitor performance throughout 
the year against our goals. This work 
doesn’t happen in isolation. The efforts 
we undertake with our suppliers build 
capacity to better manage water use 
in key regions around the world.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment44 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
0 300 600 900 1200 1500
Millions of gallons
Note: We began separating out temporary water use in 2017 to capture water use for activities like dust control for new construction and the establishment of mature, drought-tolerant trees in 
landscaping. Beginning in fiscal year 2017, our boundary expanded to include more than 150 million gallons of water used annually at distribution centers and colocated data centers. Freshwater use
Recycled water use
Temporary freshwater useWater use at corporate facilities 
We track our corporate water use for our data centers, retail stores, and corporate offices.Efficiency reduces 
our impact
Our business relies on access to safe, 
reliable water sources, whether to 
keep our facilities and data centers 
cool, to nurture our green spaces, or to 
manufacture our products. We know 
that we need to minimize the amount 
of water we use. And we are looking for 
ways to be more efficient—changing 
our processes, technologies, and, most 
important, behavior.
Last year, our facilities used 1.3 billion 
gallons of water. Our use of recycled 
water increased by 68 percent and our 
use of freshwater (excluding temporary 
water uses) increased by 9 percent. 
Temporary water use decreased due to 
fewer construction activities. Overall, 
we’re working to improve our water 
efficiency through the use of low-flow 
fixtures, advanced cooling technologies, 
and a new landscaping program at our 
global facilities that employs sensors to 
optimize water use. These efforts are 
important to us because we recognize the size of our footprint and the potential it 
has to impact the communities where we 
work. In water-stressed regions, this work 
is particularly urgent.
This is why we focused on our 
Mesa, Arizona, data center last year. 
Located in the Lower Colorado River 
Basin, a region that has endured 
both a 20- year drought and historic 
overallocation of water resources, 
our Mesa facility provided an opportunity 
to make a significant impact by finding 
ways to more efficiently use water.
We approached this challenge from 
several directions. First, we made 
improvements to our infrastructure 
onsite to reduce our water usage. 
This involved consolidating our existing 
cooling equipment and deactivating 
cooling towers that were not needed. 
Next, we separated the pipes containing 
recirculating water with those that contain 
water for evaporation. This reduced the 
amount of water we needed to store 
to clean and refill the system. Finally, 
we adjusted the operating plan of  the chiller plant to require less cooling. 
Together, these activities are expected to 
save 14 million gallons of water per year.
While we focus first on the water Apple 
uses directly, we know that the water 
our suppliers use to make our products 
is significant too. Our supplier Clean Water 
program provides both the assessment 
tools and technical guidance our partners 
need to make improvements. Suppliers 
have taken a range of approaches, from 
employee education to optimizing the 
rinsing processes used in manufacturing, 
to updating equipment to include smart 
water feeding and usage monitors. We’ve 
even worked with a supplier at the outset 
of a manufacturing site design to make 
recommendations on water -conscious 
equipment and wastewater reclamation 
systems. In 2019, the 136 suppliers 
participating in our program directly 
contributed to saving more than 9.3 billion 
gallons of freshwater, for a total of 
30.5 billion gallons since the launch  
of the program.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment45 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAlternative water sources 
preserve freshwater
Challenging problems demand creative 
solutions. This is the case when it comes 
to conserving freshwater sources. 
Different uses of water require different 
qualities, from salinity to levels of pH. 
We’ve looked across our operations to 
match water quality to its ultimate use. 
And to seek out and identify opportunities 
to utilize alternative water sources 
from recycled and reclaimed water 
to captured rainwater. 
In 2019, we increased our use of recycled 
water 68 percent, from 63 million gallons 
to 106 million gallons. Our corporate 
facilities in the Santa Clara Valley and Elk 
Grove, California; Singapore; India; and 
Taiwan; as well as two of our three largest 
colocated data centers contributed to this 
increase. At our new Apple Park and Wolfe 
campus, new recycled water systems 
came online, replacing 11 million gallons 
of potable freshwater with recycled water. 
That’s only the beginning. We expect 
that number to continue to grow. In India, 
onsite water treatment and reuse provided 
water for irrigation, toilet flushing, and 
cooling, boosting our reuse rate to  
100 percent. We’ve also rolled out these 
efforts at retail locations. Our new  
retail location in Washington, D.C., 
for example, incorporates a rainwater 
harvesting system, which collects 
up to 25,000 gallons of water, cutting 
our reliance on potable freshwater.We’ve looked beyond our facilities, 
to our suppliers, to find other 
opportunities to conserve freshwater. 
In some cases, making minor changes 
to how we work can have a much 
larger impact on both our water usage 
and the amount of wastewater our 
suppliers generate. For example, we’ve 
implemented a countercurrent washing 
technique to rinse components with 
the same efficiency, while using much 
less water. One China-based supplier 
developed a recycling system using 
electrolysis to remove copper from a 
water mixture following a micro-etching 
process. That approach enables the 
supplier to reuse 53 percent of the 
local water they rely on, far exceeding 
the national standard. On average, 
suppliers in our Clean Water program 
have achieved a 40 percent wastewater 
reuse rate.
Stewardship expands 
beyond our footprint
We’re committed to protecting 
the communities where we work. 
That’s why we ensure each of our 
facilities complies with all local 
regulations. And that each of our 
suppliers adheres to our Apple 
Supplier Code of Conduct (PDF), 
which sets high standards for 
wastewater discharge.However, we go far beyond compliance 
and are working toward water 
stewardship, which means using water 
even more responsibly, in a socially 
beneficial, environmentally sound, 
and economically sustainable manner. 
That’s because the watersheds we rely 
on should be healthy and accessible 
to the communities where we work 
and our suppliers operate.
We’ve expanded our work with the 
Alliance for Water Stewardship, investing 
in their work to raise awareness 
throughout the Asia-Pacific region on this 
issue, to build tools and training for the 
AWS certification process, and to increase 
support for our suppliers working to be 
certified. Last year, three of our supplier 
sites earned platinum AWS certifications, 
bringing the total number of Apple 
supplier sites certified by AWS to five. 
Others are following suit. The Kunshan 
watershed, where many electronics 
manufacturers operate, is now home to 
the most AWS certified sites in the world. 
This provides us the opportunity to 
talk to others about local water risks. 
We are hosting discussions between 
brands, NGOs, local regulators, and 
government representatives to raise 
awareness around the business risks 
associated with water risks. In 2019, 
we engaged more than 100 stakeholders 
in events held across China.
Dianshan Lake is located in the Kunshan watershed, where three more of our 
suppliers earned Alliance for Water Stewardship certifications in 2019.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment46 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixEach week, a truck from a local 
farm pulls up to the gate of Apple’s 
data center in Prineville, Oregon. 
There, an Apple employee loads 
something unexpected: food 
scraps, single-use paper towels 
and cups, and other compostable 
materials generated onsite. 
The local janitorial staff set up a system to 
collect this waste and, in April 2019, Apple 
partnered with Bluestone Natural Farms 
to use the material. Instead of bringing 
these scraps to a local landfill, Bluestone 
Natural Farms composts the nearly 
5000 pounds of organic and compostable 
waste Prineville generates per year into 
rich organic material for use on the farm.This partnership is just one piece of a 
much larger effort Apple is undertaking 
here: to not only reduce our local impact, 
but also collaborate with the community 
to enhance the well-being of local 
ecosystems. The Prineville data center 
has become part of the landscape in this 
community, where farmers, ranchers, 
and mill operators have built the local 
economy in the surrounding valleys over 
many generations. Set on a 367-acre 
plateau in this high-desert town in Central 
Oregon, the center employs 100 people 
in a community of 10,000. Now Apple is 
working with local stakeholders to ensure 
the area’s natural beauty and resources 
are available for generations to come.
A central component of this is water 
stewardship. Prineville has been recognized 
nationally for its Crooked River Wetlands 
project, an innovative wastewater treatment 
system, which Apple supported.
The project models the effectiveness of 
partnering with a private enterprise in creating 
public works projects that can benefit the 
environment and deliver cost-savings to the 
community. Now the Crooked River Wetlands 
Complex also serves as a community space—Apple has worked with the Crook County 
Rotary Foundation to fund an accessibility 
project to encourage neighbors to take 
advantage of this 120-acre habitat. 
We have also partnered with the City 
of Prineville on another innovation: 
a 180-million-gallon aquifer storage and 
recovery system that holds water throughout 
the year for use in peak demand months. 
This system uses natural underground 
spaces for cost-effective storage, helping 
mitigate seasonal impacts and future 
climate-related risks of water shortages.
Our partnership extends beyond our 
environmental efforts. A data center 
internship pilot program draws candidates 
exclusively from Oregon State University–
Cascades and Central Community College 
in Prineville. And our outreach includes 
volunteer events to clean up Ochoco 
Creek and a back-to-school movie 
night to promote healthy eating habits. 
A community like Prineville offers an 
important lesson in Apple’s environmental 
mission. Small efforts, undertaken by each 
one of us, can yield greater results.Apple helped create an aquifer storage and recovery system in Prineville, 
Oregon, where one of Apple’s data centers is located.
Building a 
partnership 
in Prineville, 
Oregon
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment47 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixThe work we’re doing to rethink how we use materials isn’t limited to 
our products. We take a comprehensive view of what we consume as 
a company—from coffee cups to shipping palettes. When we think of 
the use of these items circularly—finding ways to reuse and recycle—
we better serve our ultimate goal of keeping waste out of landfills.Zero waste 
to landfill
Transitioning to zero waste 
to landfill at facilities
In 2018, we launched our commitment to 
send zero waste to landfill for our offices, 
retail stores, and data centers. That 
commitment aims to eliminate waste 
sent to landfills from these sites. We’ve 
started our journey toward that goal, 
but there’s work to be done. Across our 
global locations, the amount of municipal 
solid waste we generated increased from 
53,000 metric tons to 58,000 metric 
tons, reflecting an overall growth in our 
business.16 And the rate of municipal 
solid waste that we diverted to be 
recycled or composted remained about 
the same at 66 percent.17 To address our 
waste footprint, we are focusing on our 
major campuses and data centers in the 
U.S. as well as our global retail stores.
This work begins by first understanding 
what we throw away. In some cases, 
we’ve installed remote waste monitoring 
systems to accurately measure waste 
generation and contamination.For an even more in-depth look, our 
teams have put on gloves to conduct 
waste audits, manually looking through 
what is thrown away. This data collection 
helped us discover an important fact: 
We were overestimating waste. Before 
we optimized waste measurements 
from our monitoring system, our 
estimates assumed that bins were 
full each time they were emptied, 
leading us to overestimate waste by 
as much as 50 percent. We also found 
that products often ended up in the 
wrong bins. We used this information 
to better target our efforts and raise 
employee awareness. 
We also prevent waste by closely 
managing what comes to our sites. 
We’ve amended construction contracts, 
for example, to include waste reporting 
and diversion requirements. This helps 
us minimize the amount of waste each 
project generates. For landscaping 
work, we require that trimmings be 
mulched and reused onsite to ensure 
that compostable waste does not end up 
in a landfill. At our data centers, we are 
working with our suppliers to consolidate 
and, if necessary, redesign packaging 
to be 100 percent recyclable or reusable. 
We’ve recently begun to roll out a similar 
packaging standard at our retail sites  
as well. We’ve also worked on enhancing how 
we recycle and reuse materials. At our 
Nevada data center, a new scrap metal 
and cardboard collection program 
diverted an additional 10 percent of 
materials from landfills. Our Prineville, 
Oregon, data center eliminated more 
than 5000 pieces of single-use dishes 
and utensils in the first four months of 
our reusable dishware program. These 
and other efforts—including an office 
recycling program that captures paper, 
batteries, and beverage containers—
helped increase our diversion rates 
between 2 percent and 10 percent 
at our data centers.
Our zero waste effort extends to our 
retail stores. We recycle paper, plastic, 
aluminum, and cardboard in all of 
our retail stores worldwide, and have 
partnered with local vendors to collect 
compost in more than 70 stores across 
North America.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment48 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixHazardous waste generated at Apple 
facilities is another challenge we’re 
actively addressing. We’ve made 
significant progress in ensuring that 
these waste streams are managed 
responsibly. We audit our Transportation, 
Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDFs) 
regularly, ensuring that the locations 
where we send this waste to be treated, 
recycled, or incinerated operate within 
the strict standards for environment, 
health, safety, and waste management 
protocols. If a facility falls short, we send 
our waste to another approved facility 
that can meet our standards. 
Supporting supplier 
progress toward zero  
waste to landfill
We continue to engage our 
manufacturing partners through our 
supplier Zero Waste program, which 
launched in 2015 with the objective 
to divert 100 percent of their waste 
from landfills. The program provides 
supplier facilities with onsite support 
to reduce, recycle, and reuse materials, 
as well as tools and expert guidance 
in sustainable waste management. 
In 2019, participating supplier facilities 
increased by more than 50 percent, 
with 155 engaged in our Zero Waste 
program overall. These locations 
diverted 322,000 metric tons of waste 
from landfill during the year, bringing 
the total over the lifetime of the program 
to 1.3 million metric tons—enough 
to fill over 100,000 garbage trucks.18
We’ve prioritized these efforts around  
the suppliers with the most significant 
waste streams: the final assembly 
suppliers who put together the parts 
and modules for our products. And we’re 
seeing meaningful results. All iPhone, 
iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, AirPods, and 
HomePod final assembly sites have been 
certified as UL Zero Waste to Landfill 
facilities for the second year in a row.19 
And all Apple TV final assembly sites 
received certification in 2019. We’re now 
expanding this work to engage our sub-
assembly suppliers, where the waste streams are far more complex and 
require new, creative solutions.
We’re helping our suppliers reduce 
disposable materials onsite, enhance 
their diversion rates, and find reusable 
and recyclable alternatives. For example, 
we helped create a Recyclable Protective 
Film (RPF) that protects products during 
manufacturing and can be recycled after 
use. In 2019, the use of the film became 
a requirement for new iPhone final 
assembly and is also available on the 
open market for others. We’ve also  
encouraged the use of reusable plastic 
trays at our final assembly sites. We made 
this simple and more cost-effective by  connecting multiple suppliers with 
a single vendor to collect and clean 
trays for reuse. And the high volume 
of reusable trays made them more 
economical than using new ones. 
As a result, more than 6 million trays 
are being used and reused, saving our 
suppliers significant cost and reducing 
the amount of waste generated. 
In another initiative, we’ve helped 
our suppliers assess their shipping 
materials, identifying a 25 percent 
thinner shrink -wrap to secure products 
on shipping pallets. Through these 
and other efforts, we’re pursuing every 
opportunity to meet our zero waste goal 
and transform the way business is done.
We’ve helped participating suppliers transition to reusable rather 
than disposable plastic trays at our final assembly sites—one of 
the many small innovations that add up in our Zero Waste program.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment49 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixWhether a retail store, data 
center, or office, our facilities 
reflect the vision and values of 
Apple: the idea that the creativity 
and collaboration that define 
our company intersect with 
our responsibility to preserve 
the environment. 
Our efforts also acknowledge the impact 
that built environments have on our 
planet. That’s why we’ve prioritized 
the environment in our building design, 
utilizing industry -recognized green 
building certification wherever possible. 
To date, more than 50 of our sites have 
received LEED (Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design) or BREEAM (Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Method) 
certifications. And in total, we’re bringing 
online more than 13.8 million square feet 
of green building space worldwide. 
Opened in 2017, Apple Park remains one of 
the largest LEED platinum–certified office 
buildings in North America. Our facilities 
feature many groundbreaking innovations, 
from the world’s largest natural ventilation 
system to highly efficient hydronic radiant 
heating and cooling. Our ongoing challenge 
is ensuring that each of these performs 
efficiently and to their potential—not only to 
make the most of our precious resources but 
to uphold our values.
Our approach extends far beyond our Apple 
Park headquarters. The nearby Wolfe Campus, 
which provides more than 700,000 square feet 
of corporate office space, has also received 
LEED platinum certification. Features like 
smart LED lighting and high-efficiency  
water-cooled chillers drive the site’s efficient 
energy usage. Low-flow fixtures and an 
irrigation system that uses 90 percent recycled 
water help to optimize water consumption 
across this site.At our data centers, we continue to pursue 
opportunities to use less water in cooling 
systems and optimize energy use. This allows 
our data centers to continue to perform more 
efficiently, on average, about 60 percent 
better than the ASHRAE 90.4 baseline 
specific to data centers.
Our environmental focus also extends to  
retail spaces. Energy-efficiency teams 
engage early in the process of developing 
our flagship stores, modeling and optimizing 
energy use that accounts for the local 
climate, from temperature and humidity 
to light. At Apple Carnegie Library in 
Washington, D.C., we’ve designed a rainwater 
capture system to reduce the store’s reliance 
on freshwater resources. We have a new store 
design that uses 10 percent less energy than 
the industry -standard energy benchmark 
(ASHRAE 90.1), which we have rolled out at 
20 new locations. We’re committed to using 
sustainable materials for our in-store furniture 
while also reusing and repurposing fixtures.
For each novel challenge we face in building 
and operating green spaces at Apple, there 
is an opportunity to learn more and apply 
our knowledge to working more efficiently.Reflecting our 
values in our 
green buildings
Our facilities embody our environmental commitment, with features designed to lighten 
their environmental impact. Apple Carnegie Library in Washington, D.C., for example, features 
a rainwater capture system that collects up to 25,000 gallons of water, reducing freshwater use.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment50 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixSmarter  
Chemistry .
We test all our products, and place special attention on materials that come in skin contact. 
In our nickel leach testing on the Apple Watch Sport Band, we place components in jars of artificial 
sweat to ensure the nickel, a potential allergen, stays where it belongs—in the product.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment51 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixHighlights
Each Apple product results from an intentional design process 
that prioritizes the safety of our materials and manufacturing 
processes. We continually work to create innovative products 
that also meet our high standards of safety. 
100+ A+45,000+ 1100+
100%900+
Raw  
materials
We’ve created direct relationships 
with more than 90 raw material 
suppliers, enabling us to collect 
the chemical composition 
of over 1100 raw materials. Chemical information 
providers 
Over 900 Apple supply chain 
partners are providing chemical 
information through our 
industry -leading Full Material 
Disclosure Portal.
Chemicals Management 
Program
Over 100 supplier facilities are 
participating in our Chemicals 
Management Program that evaluates 
the safety of chemicals used in 
our manufacturing process.Chemical information  
collection 
We have collected and validated 
chemical information for more 
than 45,000 parts.
Safer Cleaners  
program
We’ve enrolled 100 percent of 
supplier final assembly sites in 
our Safer Cleaners program, 
representing over 900 metric tons 
of cleaners used each year by more 
than 87,000 workers.Rating
The Mind the Store campaign, 
by the NGO Safer Chemicals, 
Healthy Families, gave Apple an 
A+ rating for our work to eliminate 
harmful chemicals in products 
and packaging. Safer products make for more 
sustainable products—their materials 
can be more readily recycled without 
concern for future exposure to harmful 
chemicals. This supports our efforts 
to eliminate waste and move toward 
circular sourcing for our products. In 
2019, Apple was the only company to 
receive an A+ rating from Mind the Store, an external campaign that evaluates the 
largest retailers in North America on how 
they ensure the chemical safety of their 
products and packaging. This reflects 
our ongoing commitment to providing 
safe products for our customers, 
manufacturing partners, recyclers, 
and the environment.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment52 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixOur approach
Safer materials make for safer products—and a better 
world. This belief has driven our efforts to remove harmful 
chemicals from our products—and from the processes 
of designing, making, using, and recycling them. 
Apple has taken on a leadership role 
with our approach to smarter chemistry, 
pushing advancements within the 
scientific community, our industry, and 
among regulators. This is a priority 
because we know that our efforts can have 
a broad impact beyond our customers. 
Our work continues each year, not only 
to ensure that harmful chemicals stay out 
of our products, but also to expand our 
knowledge of the chemicals our suppliers 
use to make our products. We must understand the chemical 
composition of each material used in 
Apple products to ensure they meet our 
strict standards—so we are working to 
collect and track comprehensive chemical 
composition information for each one. 
We also examine our manufacturing 
processes to monitor the chemicals 
our manufacturing partners use. This 
information helps us evaluate compliance 
with the Apple Regulated Substances 
Specification (RSS)—the global chemical 
restrictions we set for the materials in  
our products and the process chemicals 
used to manufacture products.  The RSS standard exceeds what is 
required by regulations, based on industry 
best practices and Apple’s own research. 
We also assess the safety of unregulated 
substances, to ensure we have all the 
information about the potential risks and 
hazards of materials used in products 
and by our suppliers. This empowers 
us to make changes when we need to, 
by finding safer alternatives to help protect 
our manufacturing partners and our 
customers—and the planet.
Our Smarter Chemistry strategy focuses on three main areas:
Mapping and 
engagement 
Engage our supply chain partners 
to build a comprehensive inventory 
of chemicals that make up the 
materials used in our products.Innovation 
Exceed requirements by innovating 
safer alternatives and improving  
how we manage potential risks  
of chemicals.Assessment 
Assess the health and 
environmental risks the chemicals 
in product materials may pose. 
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment53 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixWhich chemicals do our suppliers use  
to make our products? How do they 
impact our manufacturing partners, 
customers, and the planet? How do the 
chemicals used impact the quality of 
materials that could be recovered and 
recycled into new products? 
These questions are fundamental to our 
smarter chemistry work. Yet finding the 
answers requires a global effort. To do 
this, we’ve undertaken an enormous 
project: cataloging the materials in tens of 
thousands of parts in our products. This is 
a shared project that draws in not only 
our suppliers but the suppliers they work 
with. Through this broad cooperation, 
we’re mapping the chemical composition 
of the materials used in our products, as 
well as the process chemicals used in the 
manufacturing process—like cleaners and 
degreasers. Our toxicology team relies 
upon this data to perform toxicological 
assessments for safety.
This is not standard practice for our 
industry. Many electronics manufacturers 
do not have an understanding of the 
composition of materials in their products. 
Without the composition, they have few 
means to understand the toxicological 
risks associated with each chemical. 
And oftentimes this information is claimed 
as either confidential or a trade secret by 
the supplier. Even when the data is readily 
available, most brands lack the means 
to collect, process, and make decisions 
based on that information.Cataloging all the chemicals 
used to make our products 
Our Full Material Disclosure program, 
launched in 2016 as a sort of human-
genome project for the materials we use, 
continues to expand our understanding 
of the chemicals within each material in 
our products—including the materials 
used in very small quantities like 
inks, adhesives, and coatings. We’re 
navigating this enormous challenge 
with our manufacturing partners, whom 
we require to disclose proprietary 
information to assist this process. 
We’ve established an advanced system 
that simplifies the process of collecting 
data from suppliers.
This helped us create an industry-
leading level of transparency across 
our supply chain. After collecting the 
data, we go a step further than many 
other companies by carefully validating 
material composition information with 
the raw material manufacturers.
We prioritize the collection of chemical 
composition for materials associated 
with the most significant risks—whether 
through the level of usage or the amount 
of human exposure. We have collected 
detailed chemical information on more 
than 82 percent, on average, of product 
mass for iPhone, iPad, and Mac products 
we released in fiscal year 2019, which 
equates to tens of thousands of parts 
and assemblies.For some products, like the 21.5-inch 
iMac with Retina 4K display, we’ve 
collected detailed chemical information 
for over 94 percent of the product, by 
mass. For those materials that come 
under prolonged skin contact and require 
qualification from our biocompatibility 
team, we have collected 100 percent 
of the chemical information. There is 
still much to be done. Our work will 
be complete when we understand the 
chemical composition of every material 
used in our products—and even then,  
we will be continuing to update the 
mapping for newly introduced products 
and even changes that occur in the 
manufacturing process.
Mapping process chemicals 
at supplier facilities 
We care about the health and safety 
of the people who make our products. 
Requiring a safe and healthy work 
environment is core to our Code and 
Standards, and fundamental to protecting 
the people in our supply chain. As part of 
our broad engagement with suppliers, we 
established the Chemicals Management 
Program in 2015 to closely examine the 
chemicals used in our manufacturing 
processes at final assembly facilities. 
In 2017, we created an inventory of 
these substances. Mapping
and engagement 
We regularly engage our supply chain partners to ensure they 
understand and support our commitment to safer chemistry. 
From there, we begin to collect information from our suppliers on 
the chemical composition of the materials used in our products. 
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment54 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixWe’ve enrolled all our Supplier Final Assembly sites in our Safer Cleaners program, 
representing over 900,000 metric tons of cleaners used each year by over 87,000 workers.Since then, we have worked closely 
with our suppliers not only to catalog 
each chemical used in our final 
assembly facilities but also to assess 
safety measures in place, from training 
to personal protective equipment to 
ventilation. This process has yielded 
clear results. We’ve taken steps to 
develop safer materials—while working 
on controls and protocols to minimize 
harmful exposure.We've started requiring suppliers to 
disclose chemical safety information to 
Apple. This industry-leading initiative 
enables us to more deeply understand 
the scope and volume of chemicals 
used in our supply chain, including 
process chemicals.
We also developed a standardized 
process through which suppliers  
share information about the specific 
chemicals they use, what the chemicals 
are used for, and the measures taken 
to protect their employees. We use 
this information to better understand 
potential risks to workers. The rollout 
of this tool expanded in 2019 to include  
80 participating facilities.Learning with our suppliers 
Our engagement with suppliers goes 
even deeper. We regularly conduct 
in-person, in-region training in native 
languages to educate suppliers on our 
RSS, Full Material Disclosure program, 
and Chemicals Management Program, 
as well as inform suppliers about evolving 
regulations. To date, we’ve conducted 
training sessions in China, Korea, and 
Japan, and have reached more than a 
thousand suppliers across our supply 
chain—from final assembly to raw 
material vendors. These engagements 
enable us to build trust, have an open 
dialogue, and answer nuanced questions 
that help us collectively reach our goals.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment55 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixBy setting conservative restrictions, 
testing for chemicals of concern, and 
conducting toxicology evaluations, Apple 
prioritizes the safety of our customers 
and those who make our products.
Our very own list 
of restricted chemicals
The introduction of the RSS in 2002 
established our own restrictions on 
harmful chemicals in our products and 
manufacturing processes. We derive 
these restrictions from leading standards, 
recommendations from toxicologists and 
dermatologists, international laws and 
directives, and Apple policies. And we 
pay special attention to materials that 
will be in prolonged skin contact.
Apple created a new Restricted 
Chemicals for Wearables (RCW) 
specification in 2015, restricting 
potentially harmful substances in 
wearable devices, as consumer exposure 
is greatest in this category of products, 
and regulatory limits in general are not 
available or may not be sufficiently 
protective for materials in prolonged  
skin contact. The RCW has additional restrictions on 
potentially harmful substances, with a 
key focus on skin irritants and sensitizers. 
Skin irritants and sensitizers were in 
focus because customer skin reactions 
are the most commonly reported health 
issue for wearable products, such as 
jewelry. These additional requirements 
are specific to materials that come into 
prolonged skin contact, including natural 
and synthetic fibers and polymers, 
coatings, ink, leather, plastics, adhesives, 
metals, and ceramics. 
Our chemical restrictions are distributed 
to material suppliers and we have 
contractual requirements in place to 
obligate compliance. Nevertheless, 
compliance is not assumed. All materials 
that will be in prolonged skin contact 
undergo material characterization  
testing to evaluate compliance with  
the RCW.Assessment
We want to ensure that our products are safe. To accomplish this, 
we test and evaluate the chemicals in our products to understand 
the concentrations of chemicals and evaluate compliance with 
the RSS. Toxicologists review the test results to evaluate safety. 
Finally, we take the added step of having toxicologists review the 
chemical formulation of each material that may come in prolonged 
contact with the skin. Only materials that pass these reviews are 
acceptable for use in Apple products. 
We publish Apple’s 
restrictions on harmful 
chemicals in the Apple 
Regulated Substances 
Specification (PDF) and in 
Apple’s Restricted Chemicals 
for Wearables (PDF) paper.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment56 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAssessing the effects 
of chemicals on human 
and environmental health
More than a decade ago, Apple set up 
the Environmental Testing Lab—and 
with it, a team of chemists tasked 
with testing our products, identifying 
potentially harmful chemicals, and 
monitoring compliance with the RSS. 
The lab has continually expanded since 
its 2006 opening to accommodate 
the advanced equipment required for 
chemical analysis—it is now 30 times 
its original footprint. We continue to 
expand the technological capabilities 
of this lab, recently adding a new high-
resolution mass spectrometer and more 
sophisticated preparation equipment. With the information collected from 
the Environmental Testing Lab and the 
Full Material Disclosure and chemical 
mapping programs, we can then 
generate comprehensive assessments. 
This includes GreenScreen®, which 
considers 18 criteria to help us 
understand the chemicals’ effects on 
health and on the environment. We 
also have in-house, board-certified 
toxicologists who use lab testing 
and computer modeling to create 
toxicological profiles that previously 
didn’t exist. Only materials that pass 
our rigorous review process are 
accepted for our products. We’re also focused on protecting 
the people who make our products. 
The RSS establishes a safety standard 
on chemical usage that our suppliers are 
required to uphold. We also require that 
our suppliers provide us with chemical 
test reports to prove that the chemicals 
their facilities use comply with the RSS. 
In 2019, we assessed over 1200 new 
materials through a combination of tests, 
formulation reviews, and quantitative 
and qualitative exposure assessments 
to proactively eliminate risks to people 
and the environment.
The Nitrogen bath is used to break down components—like the Apple Watch Sport Band—
to test them for compliance with Apple Regulated Substances Specification.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment57 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixInnovation
The identification and assessment of the chemical 
compositions of materials help inform how we take action 
to keep harmful chemicals out of our products. 
In some cases, this means integrating 
toxicology into the design process so 
that we can prevent harmful chemicals 
from entering the product in the first 
place. In other cases, we find a safer 
substitute to potentially harmful 
chemicals. We’re also expanding our 
engagement with suppliers to improve 
how chemicals are managed. And we 
monitor customer feedback and make 
adjustments as necessary. This work is 
never done. Rather, we are constantly 
improving on the information we collect 
to keep safe those who make, use, and 
recycle our products. 
Integrating toxicology 
into product design
A great deal of care and research 
goes into choosing materials for Apple 
products to ensure manufacturing 
workers, customers, and recyclers 
can use and handle Apple products 
safely. And the best way to keep 
harmful chemicals out of our products 
is not to use them in the first place. 
So we consider the toxicological 
profile of materials as part of Apple’s 
material selection process during 
new product development. Materials characterization testing is an 
essential step in the process to evaluate 
compliance to the RSS and to uncover 
any potentially harmful substances 
that are present but not expressly 
listed in the specification. Toxicologists 
use the testing results to conduct risk 
assessments for material selection. 
While this evaluation is costly, labor-
intensive, and requires resources not 
usually found in the electronics industry, 
it is the most essential step to objectively 
and comprehensively evaluate safety. 
Characterizing materials without 
knowing the full composition requires 
a battery of testing for substances 
of concern combined with supplier 
statements. Higher-quality assessments 
can be completed if the full chemical 
composition is known in advance. 
This is why we work with raw material 
manufacturers to collect the proprietary 
chemical composition of their materials. Apple is playing a 
leading role in driving 
the development of safer 
chemicals and less toxic 
electronics through global 
supply chains.”
Mike Schade  
Mind the Store Campaign Director 
for Safer Chemicals, Healthy Families
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment58 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixKeeping circular 
supply chains free 
of harmful chemicals
As Apple and other manufacturers 
transition to circular material supply 
chains, the role of green chemistry 
has taken on new importance. It’s 
becoming even more essential to 
make sure that materials returning to 
the supply chain do so free of harmful 
substances. A circular material supply 
chain means that materials from 
products are recovered and reused, minimizing the strain on natural 
resources. There is a tremendous risk 
of introducing harmful chemicals into 
this loop. And in some cases, materials 
cannot be recycled because of their 
history of containing harmful chemicals. 
When we source recycled materials 
from our own products, we know the 
chemical composition of the materials 
used. And we have the assurance that 
the materials are safe for use in our 
products. In instances where we source 
content from the recycled materials market, the chemical composition is not 
only unknown but also difficult to trace. 
So we take the extra step to analyze the 
chemical composition of these materials 
to evaluate whether they comply with 
Apple’s RSS. Through our work, we want 
to ensure that materials can be recycled 
at end-of-life, without posing a threat to 
the health of people or the environment.Innovating alternatives 
to harmful substances
We’re not only evaluating the chemicals 
that go into our products and those 
used to manufacture them, but also 
developing alternatives that help 
reduce and remove substances we’ve 
determined to be potentially harmful. 
Sometimes this requires innovation. 
If a safer alternative doesn’t exist, we 
work with our suppliers to create one. 
Developing chemistries that meet both 
our rigorous performance and safety 
standards takes time and effort. We spent four years on research and 
development to create an alternative 
to PVC and phthalates, which are used 
in the manufacture of power cords and 
headphone cables. Apple worked with 
multiple material suppliers and tested 
dozens of different formulations until 
the right combination of performance 
and safety was achieved with lower 
toxicological and ecological risk than 
PVC. Apple then worked with dozens 
of safety agencies around the world 
to create new pathways to certify the 
alternative materials. This innovation, 
and others we’re currently working 
toward, exemplify Apple’s commitment.We’ve been actively working on safer 
products since the late 1990s. Our 
efforts have steadily identified and 
removed harmful chemicals: PVC 
and phthalates used in power cords 
and data cables, lead used in display 
glass and solder, mercury in displays 
and arsenic in glass, and brominated 
flame retardants.20 We’ve done so by 
developing alternatives from energy-
efficient and mercury -free LEDs and 
OLEDs, to safer metal hydroxides and 
phosphorus compounds on enclosures, 
cables, circuit boards, and connectors. 
Or, as we did with beryllium-copper 
connectors and springs, we designed 
them out of our products.
Inventing ways to replace bad substances with good ones
Replaced with 
safer thermoplastic 
elastomers.21 Both are still 
used by other companies 
in power cords and 
headphone cables. Eliminated from thousands  
of parts such as enclosures,  
cables, circuit boards, 
and connectors in 2008. 
We use safer metal 
hydroxides and phosphorus 
compounds in their place.22 Eliminated in 2009. 
We use energy-efficient, 
mercury-free LEDs 
and OLEDs instead 
of mercury-based 
fluorescent lamps in 
all our displays. 
Eliminated from display 
glass since 2008. 
Arsenic was traditionally 
used in glass.24Eliminated from all new 
product designs. Beryllium 
is found in copper alloys 
used to make connectors 
and springs.Phased out of display 
glass and solder 
in 2006.23PVC and  
phthalatesBrominated 
flame 
retardants 
(BFRs) Mercury
Lead Arsenic Beryllium
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment59 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixManaging chemicals 
at supplier facilities 
Putting people first when it comes to 
chemicals management requires strict 
adherence to safety processes and 
the transparent sharing of information 
with supplier employees about the 
chemicals they are using. In the RSS, 
we provide clear instructions to suppliers 
on banned substances. But rather than 
stop at simply banning chemicals, we are 
working to provide guidance on how to 
select safer alternatives from the start.
The first focus of our safer alternatives 
effort has been cleaners and degreasers, 
which are the most used final assembly 
process chemicals in our supply chain by volume. Since 2017, utilizing rigorous 
methodologies such as GreenScreen, 
SciveraLENS Screened Chemistry, 
and EPA Safer Choice, we have been 
developing a list of safer cleaners and 
degreasers for use at final assembly sites.
Since the inception of this effort, 
all supplier final assembly sites have 
utilized only these safer alternatives.
In 2019, we began scaling the adoption 
of safer cleaners and degreasers beyond 
Apple’s supply chain. We started by 
tackling the lack of a comprehensive 
industry-wide standard for defining 
safer cleaners. We worked with Clean 
Production Action, an independent, 
third-party organization, to create criteria 
that can be used across the electronics industry to assess safer cleaners. 
This enables chemical manufacturers 
and suppliers to have the cleaners 
and degreasers they use assessed at 
hundreds of testing laboratories around 
the world using a common framework. 
Our safer cleaners criteria were also 
reviewed and approved by the Apple 
Green Chemistry Advisory Board, a group 
of the world’s leading toxicologists, 
researchers, and academics focused on 
integrating green chemistry into Apple’s 
products and supply chain.
Later in 2020, these criteria will be 
shared openly with others to encourage 
the adoption of safer alternatives and 
industry standards that can be adopted 
globally across sectors.
Gathering 
stakeholders 
around green 
chemistry
We seek out insights and ideas 
from those who share our 
commitment to removing toxins.
So we formed our own Green Chemistry 
Advisory Board, made up of some 
of the world’s leading toxicologists, 
researchers, and academics. We regularly 
convene this advisory board to discuss 
the latest developments in the field 
of green chemistry, and obtain input 
on our strategy.The advisory board has helped us identify 
innovative ways to minimize or eliminate 
toxins from our supply chain. 
We also want to engage with the industry 
more broadly to help drive transparency 
of chemicals used in manufacturing. 
Apple serves on the board of the 
Clean Electronics Production Network 
(CEPN), which Apple helped found. It is 
a multi-stakeholder Innovation Network 
to address complex workplace health 
and safety challenges in the electronics 
supply chain. The network is facilitated 
by the Center for Sustainability Solutions 
at Green America, a leading environmental 
advocacy organization whose members 
include civil society organizations 
and government agencies.Apple has been a leader in 
meeting society’s demand for 
better stewardship of chemicals 
over the life cycle of their 
products. For the past five years, 
the Green Chemistry Advisory 
Board has worked with Apple’s 
own experts to help push the 
company to avoid the use of 
inherently toxic substances 
and to recover materials for 
next -generation products.”
Dr. Lauren Heine  
and Professor Dele Ogunseitan
Apple Green Chemistry Advisory Board
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment60 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAppendix .
2020  Environmental Progress Report61 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix
apple.com/environmentAppendix A
Apple’s 
environmental data
63 Greenhouse gas emissions
65 Energy
66 Resources
 Water
 Waste
 Product packaging footprint
67 Normalizing factors
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment62 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixGreenhouse  
gas emissions
Fiscal year
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Corporate facilities 
emissions (CO 2e)Scope 1  
Natural gas, diesel, propane1 38,720  39,990  34,560  27,000  19,360 
Fleet vehicles  6,950  11,110  8,300  7,370   8,740 
Process emissions2 4,870  3,490  2,540  -  - 
Scope 2 (market-based)3
Electricity 0  8,730  36,250  41,000  42,460 
Scope 34
Business travel5 325,500  337,340  121,000  117,550  139,940 
Employee commute6 194,660  183,160  172,440  186,360  172,970 
Product life cycle 
emissions (CO 2e)7Manufacturing (purchased goods  
and services) 18,900,000  18,500,000  21,100,000  22,800,000  29,600,000 
Product transportation 
(upstream and downstream) 1,400,000  1,300,000  1,200,000  1,200,000  1,300,000 
Product use (use of sold 
products ) 4,100,000  4,700,000  4,700,000  4,900,000  6,600,000 
End-of-life treatment  60,000  50,000  100,000  300,000  500,000 
Total comprehensive carbon footprint8 25,100,000 25,200,000  27,500,000 29,500,000  38,400,000 
1 Starting in fiscal year 2016, scope 1 emissions capture diesel use in emergency back-up generators and propane gas use in corporate offices.       
2 Emissions from R&D processes. Data reported beginning in 2017.      
3 The building operations and cooling emissions (PUE) associated with our colocated data facilities are beyond our operational control and therefore these emissions are not included in our report.    
4  In fiscal year 2017, we started calculating scope 3 emissions not listed above. In fiscal year 2019, these include electricity transmission and distribution losses (54,000 metric tons CO 2e) and life cycle emissions associated 
with renewable energy (77,000 metric tons CO 2e).      
5  We are constantly revisiting our methodology to hold ourselves to high accountability standards. So in fiscal year 2018, we changed how we calculate emissions from business travel in order to better account for classes  
of service in air travel. As a result of this change, our scope 3 transportation emissions increased by 77 percent between 2017 and 2018. Without the methodology change, these emissions would have increased by  
14 percent, which reflects the growth in our business.       
6  We adjusted our methodology for fiscal year 2017 to take into account Apple’s “At Home Advisors” program, where employees work remotely.     
7  Because we’re committed to accuracy and transparency, we’re constantly refining our product life cycle assessment model and sources of data. For example, we recently obtained more accurate data for the amount of 
electricity used to manufacture a number of components like onboard electronics, bare boards and flexes, and various module assemblies. The net result was an increase in our 2019 carbon footprint. When using the same 
data and model as 2018, we find our carbon emissions in 2019 would have been about 23 million metric tons, or a decrease of 7 percent.       
8 Due to rounding, our total comprehensive carbon footprint is not always the sum of the subtotals disclosed above.       
Notes: For data on previous years, please reference past Environmental Responsibility Reports, available at apple.com/environment. Dash indicates data that are not available.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment63 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixApple uses five steps when conducting a product 
life cycle assessment:
1.  To model the manufacturing phase, we use 
part-by-part measurements of the entire 
product along with data on part production. 
The measurements help us accurately determine 
the size and weight of the components 
and materials in the product, while data on 
manufacturing processes and yield loss during 
production allows us to account for the impact 
of manufacturing. The LCA includes accessories, 
packaging, and units that are repaired and 
replaced through AppleCare.
2.  To model customer use, we measure the power 
consumed by a product while it is running in 
a simulated scenario. Daily usage patterns 
are specific to each product and are a mixture 
of actual and modeled customer use data. 
For the purposes of our assessment, years 
of use, which are based on first owners, are 
modeled to be four years for macOS and tvOS 
devices and three years for iOS and watchOS 
devices. Most Apple products last longer and 
are passed along, resold, or returned to Apple by 
the first owner for others to use. More information 
on our product energy use is provided in our 
Product Environmental Reports.  
3.  To model transportation, we use data collected 
on shipments of single products and multipack 
units by land, sea, and air. We account for 
transporting materials between manufacturing 
sites; transporting products from manufacturing 
sites to regional distribution hubs; transporting 
products from regional distribution hubs to 
individual customers; and transporting products 
from final customers to recycling facilities.4.  To model recycling, we use material composition 
data on our products and cover the treatment 
steps carried out by the recycler to obtain metal, 
plastic, and glass material streams. Subsequent 
processing and remelting steps are not included, 
as these are considered stages of production 
and not end-of -life processing.
5.  After we collect data about production, use, 
transport, and recycling, we combine it with 
detailed greenhouse gas emission data. 
This emission data is based on a combination 
of Apple-specific and industry-average datasets 
for material production, manufacturing processes, 
electricity generation, and transportation. 
Renewable energy used in the supply chain, 
initiated by suppliers independently or through 
the Apple Supplier Clean Energy Program, are 
also accounted for. Combining product -specific 
data with emission data in our LCA tool allows us 
to compile detailed results for greenhouse gas 
emissions as they relate to the product. The data 
and modeling approaches are checked for 
quality and accuracy by the Fraunhofer Institute 
in Germany. There is inherent uncertainty in 
modeling carbon emissions due primarily to data 
limitations. For the top component contributors 
to Apple’s carbon emissions, Apple addresses 
this uncertainty by developing detailed process-
based environmental models with Apple-specific 
parameters. For the remaining elements of 
Apple’s carbon footprint, we rely on industry-
average data and assumptions.  Apple's life cycle  
assessment methodology
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment64 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixFiscal year
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Corporate  
facilities  
energy use1Electricity million kWh 2,427 2,182 1,832 1,420 996
U.S. million kWh  2,075 1,830 1,536 1,157 831
International million kWh 351 351 296 262 166
Natural gas MWh  190,260  189,280  165,330  132,970  105,940 
Biogas MWh  217,140  226,660  193,280  152,650  143,660 
Propane liquid MWh  280  280  280  280  70 
Gasoline MWh  23,950  37,740  31,310  29,200  - 
Diesel (other) MWh  16,450  20,270  20,670  9,920  - 
Diesel (mobile combustion) MWh  2,520  4,540  690  460  - 
Energy 
efficiency2Corporate facilities 
Electricity savings kWh/year 208,645,080  113,203,780  69,989,660  55,288,800  37,875,000 
Fuel savings mmBTU/year  277,120  254,140  245,340  222,850  167,670 
Supplier facilities3
Electricity savings kWh/year 943,890,280  798,932,140  473,519,660  159,113,130  38,815,530 
Fuel savings mmBTU/year  25,120  25,120  5,620  -  - 
Renewable 
electricityCorporate facilities 
Renewable energy use MWh  2,430  2,170  1,770  1,350 920
% Renewable energy4percent 100% 99% 97% 96% 93%
Scope 2 emissions avoided5metric tons 
CO₂e899,000 690,000 589,000 541,000 336,000
Supplier facilities
Renewable energy capacity 
(operational)GW 2.7 1.9 1.2 0.7  - 
Renewable energy capacity 
(committed)GW 5.1 3.3 2 1.3  - 
Renewable energy use MWh 5,700,000 4,100,000 1,900,000 200,000  - 
1 Select historical breakdowns are not available for 2015.        
2  Because energy efficiency measures have lasting benefits, energy efficiency savings are calculated cumulatively since 2012. All efficiency measures are retired based on their effective useful lifetime as documented by the 
California Energy Commission.  
3 Supplier energy savings are calculated on a calendar year basis.      
4 We calculate our progress toward 100 percent renewable energy on a calendar year basis. Beginning January 1, 2018, 100 percent of the electricity we use to power our global facilities is sourced from renewable energy.  
5 We have adjusted previous years’ avoided emissions to remove double counting biogas emissions.       
Notes: For data on previous years, please reference past Environmental Responsibility Reports, available at apple.com/environment. Dash indicates data that are not available.     Energy
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment65 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixFiscal year
Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
WaterCorporate facilities 
Total1million gallons  1,318  1,258  1,000  630  573 
Freshwater2 million gallons  1,151  1,055  896  -  - 
Recycled water million gallons  106  63  24  -  - 
Water for temporary uses3million gallons  60  140  80  - 
Supply chain
Freshwater saved million gallons 9,300 7,600 5,100 3,800  - 
WasteCorporate facilities4 
Landfill diversion rate percent 66% 67% 71% 64% 62%
Landfilled 
(municipal solid waste)pounds  38,317,120  32,372,890  31,595,200  21,618,850  13,110,880 
Recycled pounds  72,338,130  66,380,630  68,509,300  28,198,560  19,599,570 
Composted pounds  10,882,120  10,397,430  14,567,500  13,737,320  3,006,170 
Hazardous waste pounds  6,096,590  6,277,790  3,342,700  2,287,320  1,002,300 
Waste to energy5pounds  1,129,080  1,105,140  645,000  -  - 
Supply chain
Waste diverted from landfill6pounds  322,000  375,000  351,000  200,000  74,000 
Product 
packaging 
footprintTotal packaging metric tons 189,000 187,000 169,000 165,000 171,500
Recycled fiber  percent 59% 58% 56% 49% 48%
Responsibly sourced  
virgin fiber7 percent 33% 32% 30% 30% 31%
Plastic percent 8% 10% 14% 21% 21%
1 Beginning in fiscal year 2017, our boundary expanded to include more than 150 million gallons of water used annually at distribution centers and colocated data centers.      
2 Freshwater includes rainwater capture and use.       
3  We began separating out temporary water use in 2017 to capture water use for activities like dust control for new construction and the establishment of mature, drought-tolerant trees in landscaping.  
4  Beginning in fiscal year 2017, we’re including waste from Apple’s distribution centers. Total does not include construction and demolition waste nor electronic waste. We're refining our methodology for collecting this data 
and plan to include it in future years. We have also re-stated the total for 2018 without these categories of waste.       
5 Beginning in fiscal year 2017, waste processed in “Waste to energy” facilities is reported separately.       
6 Calculated on a calendar year basis.      
7  Since 2017, all of the virgin wood fiber used in our packaging has come from responsible sources. Responsible sourcing of wood fiber is defined in Apple’s Sustainable Fiber Specification. We consider wood fibers 
to include bamboo.   
Notes: For data on previous years, please reference past Environmental Responsibility Reports, available at apple.com/environment. Dash indicates data that are not available.Resources
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment66 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixFiscal year
2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Revenue (in millions)  $260,174  $265,595  $229,234  $215,639  $233,715 
Number of employees 137,000 132,000 123,000 116,000 110,000
* As reported in Apple’s Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the SEC.Normalizing 
factors*
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment67 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAppendix B
Facilities
renewable energy
supplement
Use of renewable energy at our facilities has been a central component 
of our emissions reduction strategy since 2011. We’ve learned a lot about 
how best to secure renewable energy, which has helped us educate 
suppliers and expand our renewable energy efforts into our supply chain. 
This appendix summarizes the types of renewable energy solutions we’ve 
deployed, and details how we implement renewable energy at our data 
centers—our largest energy loads.
How we procure 
renewable energy
Since launching our renewable energy 
program in 2011, we have implemented 
a number of solutions to procure 
renewable energy. Our strategy has 
evolved over time to create the most 
positive impact.
Ownership and PURPA:  
In 2011, Apple’s 100 percent equity 
ownership of our Maiden solar arrays was 
the first time a non-energy commercial 
company built its own utility-scale solar PV 
project. We used a 1978 federal law called 
the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act 
(PURPA) to structure the project. We then 
applied this same structure to two more 
large solar PV and biogas fuel cell projects 
in North Carolina and two micro-hydro 
projects in Oregon. This was a landmark 
moment in corporate renewable energy 
development and led to an increased use 
of PURPA in these states.
Direct Access:  
Since 2012, in California and Oregon, 
we’ve used a program called Direct 
Access to bypass the default electricity 
generation offered by the utilities 
servicing our data centers in those states. 
Instead, we contracted directly with 
independent power producers who could 
supply 100 percent renewable electricity.After initially buying from existing, 
third-party owned projects, we’re 
now procuring renewable energy from 
projects we created: The Solar Star II 
and Montague Wind projects deliver 
renewables to our Oregon data center, 
and the California Flats solar project 
to our data center, offices, and retail 
stores in California.
Green Rider:  
In 2013, we opened a new data center 
in Reno, Nevada. With no PURPA or 
Direct Access options in Nevada, we 
worked directly with the local utility, NV 
Energy, to create a whole new regulatory 
structure. The “Nevada Green Rider” 
enables us to secure a long-term, fixed- 
price contract for renewable electricity 
from a new solar PV project built for us, 
but managed by the utility. We’ve used 
this partnership to create four solar 
projects totaling 320 megawatts.
Equity investment:  
In 2014, we invested in two 20-megawatt 
solar PV projects in Sichuan, China, to 
support all of our in-country retail stores, 
corporate offices, and data storage 
facilities. This project represented the 
first time a commercial company created 
a new large-scale project in China for 
its own use. We’ve since replicated 
this model many times for Apple’s 
supply chain.Portfolio solutions:  
In 2015 and 2016, we adapted to land 
scarcity constraints in Singapore and 
Japan by contracting for solar PV on 
800 rooftops in Singapore and 300 in 
Japan. We adapted our approach in 
each country to fit local partnerships 
and regulatory structures: We signed a 
long-term agreement similar to a power 
purchase agreement in Singapore and 
made an equity investment in Japan. 
These projects offer us long-term 
flexibility as our load grows.
Renewable microgrid:  
Since 2017, we’ve been powering 
Apple Park with 100 percent renewable 
energy—about 75 percent of which is 
generated onsite and managed by a 
microgrid. The onsite generation comes 
from 14 megawatts of rooftop solar PV 
and 4 megawatts of baseload biogas 
fuel cells. Any additional energy required 
is drawn by Direct Access from the 
California Flats solar project in nearby 
Monterey County. The microgrid system 
with battery storage manages the 
renewable energy generation and the 
building’s energy use; optimizes demand 
management, load shifting, and frequency 
regulation services; and ensures 
uninterrupted energy reliability against 
local grid outages. 
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment68 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixLocation Renewable energy technologySize  
(MW)
Australia PV 0.5
Brazil Wind 0.5
China PV 40
Denmark PV 42
France PV <0.1
India PV 2
Israel PV 5
Japan PV 12
Mexico Wind 0.8
Singapore PV 34
Taiwan PV 1
Turkey PV 4
USA (AZ) PV 54
USA (CA) Fuel Cell 4
USA (CA) PV 146
USA (IL) Wind 112
USA (NC) Fuel Cell 10
USA (NC) PV 163
USA (NV) PV 270
USA (OR) Micro-hydro 3
USA (OR) PV 125
USA (OR) Wind 200
USA (TX) PV 1
Total 1,230
Note: Data current as of March 2020.Facilities renewable 
energy projects
To reach 100 percent renewable 
electricity for Apple’s own facilities, 
Apple has helped to create 1230 MW  
of renewable energy around the  
world, with another 349 MW in 
development (contracted)—for a total 
of 1579 megawatts. The projects listed 
to the right represent Apple-created 
renewable energy projects supporting 
Apple facilities’ electricity use and 
contributing to cleaner grids around the 
world. Operational projects apply a mix 
of clean energy technology including 
wind (25.5 percent), solar (73.1 percent), 
micro-hydro (0.3 percent), and biogas 
fuel cells (1.1 percent).
This table represents all operational 
renewable energy projects that Apple 
has helped create.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment69 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixLocation Scope 1 Scope 2
Total gas  
(mmBTU)Renewable  
biogas  
(mmBTU)Scope 1  
emissions  
(metric tons  
(CO 2e)Electricity  
(million kWh)Renewable  
electricity  
(million kWh)Scope 2  
emissions  
(metric tons  
(CO 2e)
Corporate 797,483 244,969 29,367 658 658 0
Cupertino, CA 699,878 244,969 24,176 314 314 0
Elk Grove, CA 12,098 - 643 16 16 0
Austin, TX 7,404 - 393 57 57 0
Other USA 29,251 - 1,558 94 94 0
Cork, Ireland 14,673 - 779 16 16 0
Singapore 611 - 32 18 18 0
China 3,538 - 188 32 32 0
Other international 30,030 - 1,598 111 111 0
Data centers 496,939 495,946 80 1,565 1,565 0
Maiden, NC 495,946 495,946 27 321 321 0
Mesa, AZ 446 - 24 163 163 0
Newark, CA - - - 108 108 0
Prineville, OR 547 - 29 254 254 0
Reno, NV - - - 374 374 0
Viborg, Denmark - - - 6 6 0
Colocation facilities  
(USA)* N/A N/A N/A 275 275 0
Colocation facilities  
(International)* N/A N/A N/A 64 64 0
Retail stores 87,918 0 4,670 203 203 0
Domestic (USA) 55,342 - 2,939 99 99 0
International 32,576 - 1,731 104 104 0
Total 1,382,340 740,915 34,117 2,426 2,426 0
 ‘-’ data are not tracked.
N/A = Gas use at colocation facilities are considered outside of Apple’s operational control.
*  We’ve updated our fiscal year 2016 colocation facilities footprint to reflect more accurately Apple’s operational boundaries. Per the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we’ve removed electricity use associated 
with colocation facility cooling and building operations. This energy use, however, is still covered by renewable energy.Fiscal year 2019 energy and carbon footprint (corporate facilities)
The chart below provides a detailed breakdown of fiscal year 2019 energy use,  
which we used to calculate our greenhouse gas emissions.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment70 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixDefault grid mix (Duke Energy) Apple actual renewable energy use
Natural gas/fuel oil 34% Apple’s solar projects 64%
Coal 31% Apple’s biogas fuel cells 18%
Nuclear 33% Duke Green Source Rider (100 percent solar) 12%
Renewable 2% NC GreenPower (100 percent solar) 6%
2019 default emissions  
(metric tons CO₂e/year)138,1292019 effective emissions  
(metric tons CO₂e/year)0
www.sustainabilityreport.duke-energy.com/introduction/duke-energy-at-a-glance Actual fiscal year 2019 energy data
* Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2018 data: www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf . Maiden, North Carolina: Grid mix vs. Apple-sourced renewable energy
Electricity use in fiscal year 2019: 321 million kWhA focus on data centers
We used over 1.5 billion kWh of 
electricity in fiscal year 2019 to power 
our data centers and colocation 
facilities around the world, representing 
over 60 percent of our scope 1 and 2 
emissions. We’re proud that 100 percent 
of that electricity came from clean, 
renewable sources including solar, wind, 
biogas fuel cells, and low-impact hydro 
power. To cover our needs, we build our 
own renewable power projects and work 
with utilities to purchase clean energy 
from locally obtained resources.
We’re staying at 100 percent even 
as Apple’s data center presence 
continues to grow.
We now operate five data centers, 
and several more are being developed. 
These data centers are spread across 
North America, Europe, and Asia. 
Each has unique design features that 
conserve energy and reflect the climate, 
as well as other aspects, of its location.Solar + Biogas Fuel Cells
Maiden, North Carolina
100 percent renewable since opening June 2010
Between 2011 and 2015, we installed 
68 megawatts of Apple-created 
projects: two 20-megawatt solar 
projects, an 18-megawatt solar 
project, and 10 megawatts of biogas 
fuel cells. We then partnered with 
the local utility, Duke Energy, to help 
build five solar projects through its 
Green Source Rider program. These 
solar projects came online beginning 
in 2015 and were Duke Energy’s first 
Green Source Rider projects to become 
operational. We worked with Duke 
Energy for several years to develop 
this green energy tariff option, which 
allowed Apple and Duke Energy 
to work together to develop new 
renewable energy projects. The five 
Green Source Rider projects have a 
combined capacity of 20 megawatts. 
In 2017, we made long-term 
commitments to five more solar projects in North Carolina, for an additional 
86 megawatts of clean energy. In 
fiscal year 2019, the Maiden data 
center was supported by projects that 
generated 321 million kWh of renewable 
energy, which is equivalent to the 
energy used by nearly 24,000 homes 
in North Carolina for a year.*
Energy efficiency measures we’ve 
implemented at our Maiden data centers 
include use of outside air cooling through 
a waterside economizer during night and 
cool-weather hours, which, along with 
water storage, allows the chillers to be 
idle 75 percent of the time.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment71 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixDefault grid mix (Pacific Power) Apple actual renewable energy use
Coal 59% Apple’s micro-hydro projects 1%
Natural gas 11% Oregon solar (via Direct Access) 53%
Unspecified 10% Apple’s solar projects 46%
Renewable 20%
2019 default emissions  
(metric tons CO 2e/year)178,7552019 effective emissions  
(metric tons CO 2e/year)0
www.pacificpower.net/content/dam/pcorp/documents/en/pacificpower/rates-regulation/oregon/
tariffs/OR_LabelingInsert_LrgBiz.pdfActual fiscal year 2019 energy data
* Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2018 data: www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf . Prineville, Oregon: Grid mix vs. Apple-sourced renewable energy
Electricity use in fiscal year 2019: 254 million kWhWind + Solar + Low-Impact Hydro
Prineville, Oregon
100 percent renewable since opening May 2012
To support our Prineville data center, 
we signed a 200-megawatt power 
purchase agreement for a new Oregon 
wind farm, the Montague Wind Power 
Facility, which entered commercial 
operation at the end of 2019. It’s our 
largest project to date, producing over 
560 million kWh of clean, renewable 
energy a year.
This is in addition to our power purchase 
agreement for the 56-megawatt Solar 
Star Oregon II project located just a few 
miles from our data center. This solar PV 
project, which came online and began supporting the data center in 2017, 
produces 140 million kWh of renewable 
energy per year. To strengthen the 
connection between Apple and these 
projects, we use Oregon’s Direct Access 
program to supply the renewable 
energy from these projects directly 
to our data center.
Also supporting the data center 
are two micro-hydro projects that 
harness the power of water flowing 
through local irrigation canals that 
have been operating for over 60 years. 
These micro-hydro projects generate 
about 7 to 10 million kWh of renewable 
energy a year. To supplement these 
projects, we executed a long-term purchase agreement for all environmental 
attributes from a 50-megawatt portfolio 
of six solar projects in Oregon.
In fiscal year 2019, the Prineville data 
center was supported by projects that 
generated 254 million kWh of renewable 
energy, which is equivalent to the energy 
used by over 23,000 homes in Oregon 
for a year.*
Our Prineville data center takes 
advantage of the cool and dry climate 
by cooling its servers with outside air 
whenever possible. Indirect evaporative 
cooling is enabled when the outside air 
temperature gets too high to cool the 
servers with outside air alone.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment72 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixDefault grid mix (NV Energy—North) Apple actual renewable energy use
Natural gas 58%Apple’s solar projects  
(via the Nevada Green Rider program)81%
Coal 16% Apple’s solar projects 19%
Large hydro 8%
Other 2%
Renewable 16%
2019 default emissions  
(metric tons CO 2e/year)112,4402019 effective emissions  
(metric tons CO 2e/year)0
www.nvenergy.com/publish/content/dam/ nvenergy/bill_inserts/2019/01_jan/power-content-insert- 
south-2019-01_03_31.pdfActual fiscal year 2019 energy data
* Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2018 data: www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf .Reno, Nevada: Grid mix vs. Apple-sourced renewable energy
Electricity use in fiscal year 2019: 374 million kWhSolar
Reno, Nevada
100 percent renewable since 
opening December 2012
Unlike competitive energy markets where 
we’ve located some of our data centers, 
the regulated electricity supply in Nevada 
did not offer a simple solution for us to 
create new renewable energy projects 
dedicated to our data center. So, in 2013, 
we created a partnership with the local 
utility, NV Energy, to develop the Fort 
Churchill Solar project. Apple designed, 
financed, and constructed the project, 
and NV Energy operates it and directs 
all the renewable energy it produces 
to our data center. The Fort Churchill 
Solar project uses a photovoltaic panel 
with curved mirrors that concentrate 
sunlight. The 20-megawatt array has 
an annual production capacity of over 
43 million kWh.To facilitate further renewable 
development in Nevada, Apple worked 
with NV Energy and the Nevada utility 
commission to create a green energy 
option open to all commercial customers, 
called the Nevada Green Rider, that 
does not require the customer to 
fund project development up-front. 
Thanks to this new option, in 2015 
we announced our second Nevada 
solar project, the 50-megawatt Boulder 
Solar II project. This project came online 
in 2017, producing about 137 million 
kWh of renewable energy per year. We 
have used the Nevada Green Rider two 
more times, first for the 200-megawatt 
Techren Solar II project. Apple’s largest 
solar project to date, it is estimated to 
produce over 540 million kWh per year 
and came online in late 2019.Next was the 50-megawatt Turquoise 
Nevada project, estimated to produce 
110 million kWh per year and come 
online in 2020. 
In fiscal year 2019, the Reno data 
center was supported by projects that 
generated 374 million kWh of renewable 
energy, which is equivalent to the energy 
used by nearly 33,000 homes in Nevada 
for a year.*
Like in Prineville, our Reno data center 
takes advantage of the mild climate 
by cooling its servers with outside 
air whenever possible. When the 
outside air is too warm to cool the 
servers alone, it draws from indirect 
evaporative cooling.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment73 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixDefault grid mix (Pacific Gas & Electric) Apple actual renewable energy use
Natural gas 15% Bundled solar (via Direct Access) 97%
Nuclear 34% Apple’s solar project 3%
Large hydro 13%
Renewable 39%
2019 default emissions  
(metric tons CO 2e/year)10,3142019 effective emissions  
(metric tons CO 2e/year)0
www.pge.com/pge_global/common/pdfs/your-account/your-bill/understand-your-bill/bill-
inserts/2019/1019-Power-Content-Label.pdf
Note: The figures above may not sum to 100 percent due to rounding.Actual fiscal year 2019 energy data
* Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2018 data: www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf . Newark California: Grid mix vs. Apple-sourced renewable energy 
Electricity use in fiscal year 2019: 108 million kWhSolar
Newark, California
100 percent renewable since January 2013
Our data center in Newark, California, 
is powered by 100 percent renewable 
energy. We hit this milestone in January 
2013, when we began serving the data 
center with energy sourced primarily 
from California wind power.
We acquired this energy directly from the 
wholesale market through California’s 
Direct Access program.In 2017, Apple’s 130-megawatt California 
Flats solar project in nearby Monterey 
County came online, and now we use 
Direct Access to supply power from that 
project directly to our data center as well 
as other Apple facilities in California.
In fiscal year 2019, the Newark data 
center was supported by projects that 
generated 108 million kWh of renewable 
energy, which is equivalent to the 
energy used by nearly 17,000 homes 
in California for a year.*
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment74 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixDefault grid mix (Salt River Project) Apple actual renewable energy use
Coal 53% Apple’s solar project 100%
Nuclear 17%
Natural gas/other 10%
Sustainable 17%
Other 3%
2019 default emissions  
(metric tons CO 2e/year)77,139 2019 effective emissions  
(metric tons CO 2e/year)0
www.srpnet.com/about/stations/pdfx/2018irp.pdf Actual fiscal year 2019 energy data
* Apple took operational control of the building in October 2015 and converted it to a data center that began servicing customers in March 2017: www.srpnet.com/about/stations/pdfx/2018irp.pdf . 
**  Carbon emissions equivalences calculated using U.S. Energy Information Administration, 2018 data: www.eia.gov/electricity/sales_revenue_price/pdf/table5_a.pdf .Mesa, Arizona: Grid mix vs. Apple-sourced renewable energy
Electricity use in fiscal year 2019: 163 million kWhSolar
Mesa, Arizona
100 percent renewable since 
opening March 2017*
Our global command data center in 
Mesa, Arizona, came online in 2016. 
To support this facility, we partnered 
with the local utility, the Salt River 
Project (SRP), to build the 50-megawatt 
Bonnybrooke solar project, which 
became operational in December 2016. 
This project produces over 147 million 
kWh of clean, renewable energy a year, 
which roughly matches the energy used 
by the data center.
As the Mesa Data Center grew, 
it became apparent that we needed 
additional sources of renewable energy 
to maintain our 100 percent renewable 
electricity goal.We began to explore onsite solar options 
at the data center and determined 
that we could provide valuable shaded 
parking that paid for itself through 
energy bill reductions while adding to our 
renewable energy portfolio. The resulting 
PV facility includes five elevated parking 
canopies and three ground mounted 
arrays, for a total generating capacity of 
4.67 MW. The onsite PV system began 
commercial operation in February 2019 
and is expected to generate 9000 MWh 
per year. 
In addition, we began working with 
SRP to develop a customer renewable 
energy program in 2017, resulting in 
their Sustainable Energy Initiative, 
launched in 2019, to provide a diverse 
mix of commercial electric customers 
with new renewable energy at an affordable price. Under this program, 
Apple has executed an agreement with 
SRP to purchase a portion of the output 
of their proposed 100 MW Central Line 
PV Facility, expected to begin operations 
in 2021. 
In fiscal year 2019, the Mesa data 
center was supported by 163 million 
kWh of renewable energy, which is 
equivalent to the energy used by 
over 13,000 Arizona homes.**
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment75 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixDenmark
We’re currently completing construction 
of a new data center in Viborg, Denmark. 
It will run on 100 percent renewable 
energy from its first day of operations. 
The data center’s construction phase 
was powered with 100 percent wind 
energy from a local renewable energy 
retailer in Denmark. We have long-term 
supply contracts with Danish renewable 
projects that will scale up as our data 
center loads grow. Our Northern Jutland 
PV project achieved commercial 
operation in late 2019, will meet all of 
the data center’s near-term energy 
needs, and at 42 megawatts, is one of 
Denmark’s largest solar power plants.
The power system design at the data 
center is based on a resilient substation 
that eliminates the need for backup 
diesel generators. This reduces the 
carbon footprint of the data center and 
completely eliminates the need for large 
diesel fuel storage systems and diesel 
engine emissions that would impact 
the local community. 
China
We have two new data centers in 
development in China, one in Guizhou 
Province, the other in Inner Mongolia. 
Both will be supplied with 100 percent 
renewable energy.Air quality 
Data centers often rely on diesel-powered 
emergency generators to provide a 
backup source of power in case of 
electrical outages. Emergency generators 
must be exercised periodically to ensure 
their operational reliability. These 
preventative maintenance activities 
as well as emergency operations during 
power outages consume significant  
quantities of diesel fuel and result in 
air pollutant emissions. As a source of 
air pollutant emissions, the emergency 
generators at Apple’s data centers are 
operated under air permits issued by 
regulatory agencies. These permits 
require monitoring, testing, inspection, 
and reporting at regular intervals.  
We’ve voluntarily installed emissions 
control systems on our emergency 
generators to reduce emissions of 
nitrogen oxides and particulates. 
And we’re standardizing our approach 
to preventative maintenance activities 
to minimize annual testing hours. 
To further reduce air emissions 
at our data centers, we’re finding 
innovative ways to minimize the use of 
diesel-powered emergency generators. 
In Denmark, we’ve deployed a new 
substation design, in conjunction with 
the local utility, with the highest level 
of resiliency and automation. It will 
allow Apple to eliminate emergency 
generators altogether—in addition to 
eliminating air emissions associated with 
diesel fuel delivery. At our data centers 
in Nevada, Arizona, and Oregon, we 
have added a second transmission line, 
which increases the reliability of the 
power supply and, therefore, minimizes 
the need for emergency operation of 
the generators. We are in the process 
of deploying this system at our North 
Carolina data center as well.Our colocation facilities
The majority of our online services 
are provided by our own data centers; 
however, we also use third-party 
colocation facilities for additional 
data center capacity. While we don’t 
own these shared facilities and use 
only a portion of their total capacity, 
we include our portion of their energy 
use in our renewable energy goals. 
Starting January 2018, 100 percent 
of our power for colocation facilities 
was matched with renewable energy 
generated within the same state or NERC 
region for facilities in the United States, 
or within the same country or regional 
grid for those around the world. As our 
loads grow over time, we’ll continue 
working with our colocation suppliers 
to match 100 percent of our energy use 
with renewables.
Furthermore, we worked with one of 
our main suppliers of colocation services 
to help it develop the capability to 
provide renewable energy solutions to 
its customers. This partnership advances 
Apple’s renewable energy program 
and those of other companies that 
use this colocation provider.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment76 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixTotal energy use  
(kWh)Renewable energy  
(kWh)Percent renewable energy
AMR 275,376,450 275,376,450 100%
EMEIA 30,777,487 30,777,487 100%
APAC 32,893,712 32,893,712 100%
FY2019 total 339,047,649 339,047,649 100%Total energy use  
(kWh)Renewable energy  
(kWh)Default utility 
emissions1  
(metric tons CO 2e)Apple’s emissions— 
including renewable 
energy2  
(metric tons CO 2e)Percent renewable 
energy3
FY2011 42,500 0 10 10 0%
FY2012 38,552,300 1,471,680 17,200 16,500 4%
FY2013 79,462,900 46,966,900 31,800 14,500 59%
FY2014 108,659,700 88,553,400 44,300 11,000 81%
FY2015 142,615,000 121,086,100 60,500 12,700 85%
FY20164145,520,900 143,083,200 66,300 1,600 98%
FY2017 289,195,800 286,378,100 125,600 1,500 99%
FY2018 327,663,800 326,959,700 146,600 400 99.8%
FY2019 339,047,649 339,047,649 146,400 0 100%
1  We calculate “default utility emissions” to provide baseline emissions of what our carbon footprint would have been without the use of renewable energy. This allows us to demonstrate the savings resulting from 
our renewable energy program.
2  Apple’s greenhouse gas emissions are calculated using the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology for calculating market-based emissions.
3  We calculate our progress toward our 100 percent renewable energy goal on a calendar year basis, while the numbers reported in this table are based on fiscal year. Beginning January 1, 2018, all of the electricity use 
at our colocation facilities is from 100 percent renewable energy.
4   Over the past few years, we have been installing submeters in colocation facilities to better track electricity usage. Beginning in FY2016, we started reporting this submetered electricity usage. Prior to fiscal year 2016, 
reported electricity usage was conservatively estimated based on maximum contract capacity quantities. We’ve updated our fiscal year 2016 colocation facilities footprint to reflect more accurately Apple’s operational 
boundaries. Per the WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we’ve removed from our electricity usage and scope 2 calculations those emissions associated with colocation facility cooling and building operations.Energy use and emissions  
at Apple’s colocation facilities
Regional energy use 
at Apple’s colocation facilities (2019)
Third-party computing
Beyond the use of our own data centers 
and colocation facilities, we also use 
third-party computing services to 
support some of our on-demand cloud 
storage–based services. We are requiring 
these suppliers to adopt a 100 percent 
renewable energy strategy for their Apple 
energy use.In addition, we are in the process of 
collecting data on associated carbon 
emissions from suppliers, and plan 
to publish these results in our next 
Environmental Progress Report.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment77 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAppendix C
Assurance and 
review statements
 79 Facilities energy, carbon, waste, paper, and water data (Apex)
 82 Product life cycle carbon footprint (Fraunhofer Institute) 
 86 Supplier clean energy program (Apex) 
 88 Comprehensive fiber footprint (Fraunhofer Institute) 
 91 Packaging plastic footprint (Fraunhofer Institute)
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment78 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE  STATEMENT  
 
To:  The Stakeholders of Apple, Inc.  
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Apex Co mpanies, LLC (Apex)  was e ngaged  by Apple, Inc . (Apple)  to conduct an independent 
assurance  of select environmental data reporte d in its 2020  environmental report (the Report) .  This 
Assurance Statement applies t o the related information included within the scope of work described 
below.   The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of Apple . The overall aim 
of this process is to provide assurance  to Apple ’s stakeholders on the  accuracy, reli ability and 
objectivity of select  information included in the Report .   
This information and its presentation in the Report  are the sole responsibility of the management of 
Apple .  Apex  was not involved in the collectio n of the information o r the drafting of the Report .  
 
Scope of Work  
Apple requested Apex  to include in its independent review the following:   
▪ Assurance of select environmental d ata and information included in  the Report for the fiscal 
year 2019  reporting period  (September 30, 201 8 through Se ptember 28 , 201 9), specifically , in 
accordance with Apple’s definitions and World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol :  
o Energy : Direct (Million Therms) and Indirect  (Million kilowatt hours ( mkWh)) 
o Renewable Energy (mkWH)  
o Water  Withdrawal  (Million Gallons ) 
o Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions : Direct Scope 1  emissions by weight , Indirect Scope 
2 emissions by weight , Indirect Scope 3  emissions by weight  (Employee Commute and 
Busine ss Travel)  (Metric Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent)  
o Waste Quantities and Disposition  (Metric Tonnes)  
o Paper Quantities (Metric Tonnes)  
o Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 
collect , analyze , and review the  environment al information reported ;  
Excluded from the scope of our work  is any  assurance of information relating to:  
▪ Text or other written statements associated with the Report  
▪ Activities outside the defined  assurance  period  
Assessment Standards  
Our work was conducted against Apex’s standard proce dures and guidelines for external Verification 
of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.  Apex procedures 
are based on principles and methods d escribed in the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after Dec. 15, 2015), 
issued by the Int ernational Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.  
Methodology  
Apex  undertook  the followi ng activities:  
1. Site visits to Apple facilities in Elk Grove, California; Reno , Nevada; Hyd eraba d, India; and 
Bengaluru, In dia.  
2. Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino , California;  
3. Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple ;  
4. Review of internal an d external documentary evidence produced by  Apple ;  
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment79 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 Apex  Companies, LLC   Page 2 of 3  5. Audit of environmental performance data  presented in the Report , including a detailed review 
of a sample of data  against source data ; and 
6. Review of Apple  information system s for  collection, aggregation, analysis and internal 
verification and review  of environmental data.   
 
The work was planne d and carried out to provide  reasonable assuran ce for all indicators  and we 
believe it pro vides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.   
 
Our Findings    
Apex  verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal Year 2019 reporting period  (September 30, 
2018 through September 2 8, 201 9):  
 
Parameter  Quantity  Units Boundary/ Protocol  
Natural Ga s Consu mption:   13.8  Million Therms  Worldwide  occupied 
properties  / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Electricity Consumption:  2,427 Million kilowatt 
hours ( mkWh)  Worldwide  occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Renewable Energy  2,427 Million kilowatt 
hours ( mkWh) Worldwide / Invoiced 
quantities & self -generated  
Scope 1 GHG Emissions  50,549  metric tons of 
carbon dioxide 
equivalent (tCO 2e) Worldwide occupied 
propert ies / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions  
(Location -Based)  862,1 27 tCO 2e Worldwide  occupi ed 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol  
Scope 2 GHG Emissions 
(Market -Based)  0 tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol  
Scope 3 GHG Emis sions  – 
Business Travel  325,502  tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD  
GHG Protocol V alue Chain 
(Scope 3)  
Scope 3 GHG Emissions – 
Employee Commute  194,657  tCO 2e Worldwide occupied 
properties / WRI/WBCSD 
GHG Protocol Value Chain 
(Scope 3)  
Water Withdrawal  1,318 Million gallons  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Trash disposed in Landfill  17,380 Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Hazardous Waste 
(Regulated waste)  2,765 Metric tonnes  Worldw ide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Recycled Material 
(Removal by recycling 
contractor)  32,812  Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
Composted Material  4,936 Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / App le Internal 
Protocol  
Waste to Energy  512 Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
propert ies / Apple I nternal 
Protocol  
Paper  1,434 Metric tonnes  Worldwide occupied 
properties / Apple Internal 
Protocol  
  
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment80 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 Apex  Companies, LLC   Page 3 of 3  
Our Conclusion  
Based on the assurance process and procedu res conducted , we conclude that :  
• The Energy, Water, Waste, Paper, and Scope 1 , 2 & 3 GHG Emiss ions assertions show n 
above ar e materially correct and are a fair representati on of the data and information; and  
• Apple has established appropriate system s for the collection, aggregation and analysis of 
relevant environmental information , and  has implemen ted underlying internal assurance 
practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that such information is complete 
and accurate .  
 
Statement of independence, integrity  and competence  
Apex  has implemented a Code of Ethics across the b usiness to  maintain  high ethical standards 
among staff in their day to day business activities.  We are particularly vigilant in the prevention of 
conflicts of interest.   
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with  Apple , its Directors or Manager s 
beyond that required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification independent ly, and there 
has been no conflict of interest .  
The assuran ce team has extensive experience in conducting verification and assurance  over 
environmental, s ocial, eth ical and health and safety information, systems and processes , has over 30 
years combined experience in this field and an excellent understandin g of Apex standard 
methodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports .  
Attestation:  
        
Trevor A. D onaghu , Lead Assuror   John Rohde , Technical Reviewer  
Program Manager  Practice Lead  
Sustainability and Climate Change Services  Sustainability and Climat e Change S ervices  
 
March 25, 2020  
 
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment81 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint  Letter of Assurance  
Client: Apple Inc. 1 Letter of Assurance  
Comprehensive  Carbon Footprint –  Scope 3: Product related Carbon 
Footprint for Fiscal Year 2019 
Fraunhofe r IZM reviewed Apple’s scope 3 carbon footprint data related to the products 
manufactured and sold by Apple Inc. in fiscal year 2019.  
1 Summary  
This review checks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product related data and assumptions, and overall plaus ibility of the calculated 
comprehensive  annual carbon footprint comprised of emissions derived from the life cycle 
assessment (LCA) of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 201 9. This review and verification 
focuses on Scope 3 emissions for products sold by Apple Inc. (as defined by 
WRI/WBCSD/Greenhouse Gas Protocol – Scope 3 Accounting and Reporting Standard ). It is 
noted that emissions relating to the facilities that are owned or leased by Apple (scope 1 
and 2 emissions) as well as business travel and employee commute were subject to a 
separate third party verification and are therefore excluded from the scope of this 
statement. Confidential data relating to product sales and shipments were also excluded 
from the scope of this verification.  
This review and verification covers Apple’s annual greenhouse gas emissions and does not 
replace reviews conducted for ind ividual product LCAs for greenhouse gas emissions 
(GHGs). The life cycle emissions data produced by Apple for individual products has been 
calculated in accordance to the standard ISO 14040/14044: Environmental management – 
Life cycle assessment –  Principl es and framework / Requirements and guidelines.  This 
review and verification furthermore complies with ISO 14064- 3: Greenhouse gases --  Part 
3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of greenhouse gas 
assertions .  
The review of the  annual carbon footprint has considered the following criteria:  
The system, boundaries and functional unit are clearly defined  
Assumptions and estimations made are app ropriate  
Selection of primary and secondary data is appropriate and methodologies used 
are adequately disclosed  
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment82 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint  Letter of Assurance  
Client: Apple Inc. 2 These criteria are also fundamental to the review of LCAs conducted fo r individual product 
emissions.  The reviewers note that the largest share ( 98%) of Apple Inc. annual carbon 
footprint is comprised of scope 3 emissions from individual products. The aforementioned 
criteria have been regularly reviewed by Fraunhofer IZM since 2007 with a view to 
providing independent feedback that can facilitate cont inuous improvement and 
refinement in the LCA methodology applied by Apple Inc.  
Data reported by Apple is as follows:  
 Manufacturing  Transportation  Product Use  Recycling  
2019 18.91 1.44 4.10 0.06 
[MMT  CO2e] [MMT CO2e] [MMT CO2e] [MMT CO2e] 
MMT CO2e: million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalents  
Including a reported value of 0.57  million metric tons CO2e for facilities (out of scope of 
this verification), total comprehensive carbon footprint  is reported to be 25.1 million  metric 
tons CO2e. 
Apple’s comprehensive carbon footprint  includes an increasing amount of greenhouse gas 
emissions reductions for manufacturing resulting from Apple renewable energy projects, 
supplier renewable electricity purchases, and supplier renewable electricity installations.  
These reductions are part of Apple’s Clean Energy Program. Fraunhofer IZM has not 
verified these emissions reductions.  
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) assertion  with regards to  scope 3 carbo n footprint  
is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of GHG data and 
information, and  
has not been prepared in accordance with the related International Standard on 
GHG quantification, monitoring and reporting.  
2 Reviewed Data and Plausibility  Check  
A verification and sampling plan as required by ISO 14046- 3 has been established for the 
comprehensive  carbon footprint  review and verification, defining the level of assurance, 
objectives , criteria , scope and m ateriality  of the verifica tion. 
As part of this review and verification Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:   
Sales data for FY2019 , including accessories  and including AppleCare, Apple's 
extended warranty and technical support plans for their devices . 
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment83 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint  Letter of Assurance  
Client: Apple Inc. 3 Life cycle GHG emissions for all products , differentiating the actual product 
configurations ( e.g. memory capacity)  
Calculation methodology for the comprehensive carbon footprint  and 
methodological changes implemented in 2019  
The total carbon footprint –  scope 3 for the fiscal year 2019  
Detailed analysis of the comprehensive carbon footprint  including:  
oThe breakdown of the carbon footprint  into life cycle phases 
manufacturing, transportation, product use and recycling 
oDetailed product specific split into life cycle phases  
oThe contribution of individual products and product families to the overall 
carbon footprint  
The data and information supporting the GHG assertion were projected (use phase and 
recycling) and historical (i.e. fiscal year 201 9 data regarding sales figures,  manufacturing, 
transportation , use patterns where available).  
This review comprises a check of selected data, which are most influential to the overall 
carbon footprint. The overall plausibility check addressed the following questions:  
Are product LCAs re ferenced and updated with more recent data correctly ? 
Are results for products, for which no full LCA review was undertaken, plausible ? 
Are carbon emission data for in dividual products plausible in the light of 
methodological changes as indicated by Apple?   
This review was done remotely.  
3 Findings  
In FY2019  and beginning of FY2020,  11 recent product LCA studies have been reviewed 
successfully against ISO 14040/44. These LCAs cover product segments iPhone, iPad, iMac, 
Mac mini, and AirPods . These recently reviewed  LCA studies cover products which 
represent in total 29. 2% of the total scope 3 carbon footprint. Representatives of other 
product segments ( iPod, Mac Pro, MacBook Pro, MacBook Air, Apple Watch, HomeP od, 
AirPort Expr ess / Air Port Extreme, Apple TV,  and Beats products ) underwent no or only 
minor design changes compared to those which went through a full LCA review in former 
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment84 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comprehensive Carbon Footprint  Letter of Assurance  
Client: Apple Inc. 4 years. All reviewed LCA studies up to now  cover in total 70.7% of the total  scope 3 carbon 
footprint.  
All questions raised in the course of the review were answered by Apple and related 
evidence was provided where needed.  
4 Conclusions  
Apple’ s assessment approach is excellent in terms of granularity of the used calculation 
data. A significant share of  compo nents is modelled with accurate primary data from 
Apple’s suppliers .  
For all product LCA calculations, where exact data was missing,  the principle of a worst -
case approach has been followed and results have been calculated with rather conservative 
estimat es.   
The review has not found assumptions or calculation errors on the carbon footprint  data 
level that indicate the scope 3 carbon footprint has been materially misstated.  The excellent 
analysis meets the principles of good scientific practice.    
Berlin, April 18, 2020  
   
- Karsten Schischke -   - Marina Proske - 
Fraunhofer IZM  Fraunhof er IZM  
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and   
Reliability Engineering   Reliability Engineering  
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment85 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment86 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix
 
 
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE  STATEMENT  
 
To:  The Stakeholders of Apple, Inc.  
 
Introduction and objectives of work  
Apex Co mpanies, LLC (Apex)  was e ngaged  by Apple, Inc . (Apple)  to conduct an independent 
assurance  of its Supplier Clean Energy Program data reporte d in its 2020 environmental report  (the 
Report) .  This Assurance  Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of 
work described below .  The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders of Apple . 
The overall aim of this process is to provide assur ance  to Apple ’s stakeholders on the  accuracy, 
reliability and objectivity of select  information included in the Report .   
This information and its presentation in the Report  are the sole responsibility of the management of 
Apple .  Apex  was not involved in the collection of the information o r the drafting of the Report .  
 
Scope of Work  
Apple requested Apex  to include in its independent review the following:   
▪ Methodology for tracking and verifying supplier clean energy contributions, including the 
Energy Sur vey, Renewable Energy Agreement, and other forms of supporting documentation 
provided by suppliers where available;  
▪ Assur ance of Clean Energy Program data and information for the fiscal year 2019 reporting 
period  (September 30, 201 8 through September 2 8, 2019), specifically , in ac cordance wit h 
Apple’s definitions : 
o Energy: Reported megawatt -hours (MWh) of clean energy attributed to the Clean Energy 
Program for suppliers;  
o Avoided Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions associated with clean energy attributed to 
the Cl ean Energy Program;  
o Opera tional Capac ity in megawatts (MWac) of clean energy in support of Apple 
manufacturing as a part of Apple’s Supplier Clean Energy Program;  
o Appr opriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to 
collect , analyze , and review the  information  reported ;  
Excluded from the scope of our work  is any  assurance of information relating to:  
▪ Text or other written statements associated with the Report  
▪ Activities outside the defined  assurance  period  
Assessment Standa rds 
Our work was conducted against Apex ’s standard procedures and guidelines for external Verif ication 
of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance.   Apex  procedures 
are based on principles and methods described in th e International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000  Revised, Assurance Engagements O ther than Audits or Reviews of 
Historical Financial  Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after De c. 15, 2015) , 
issued by the International Aud iting and Assurance Standards Board.  
Methodology  
Apex  undertook  the following activities:   
1. Visit to Apple corporate offices in Cupertino, California;  
2. Interviews with relevant personnel of Apple ;  
3. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produc ed by Apple ;  
4. Audit of reported data, including a detailed review of a sample of data  against source data ; 
and 
5. Review of Apple  information system s for  collection, aggregation, analysis  and internal 
verification and review  of environmental data.   2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment87 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix
 
 Apex  Compan ies, LLC   Page 2 of 2  
The work was planned a nd carried out to provide  reasonable assuran ce for all indicators  and we 
believe it provide s an appropriate basis for our conclusions.   
 
Our Findings    
Apex  verified the following indicators for Apple’s Fiscal Year 2019 reporting period  (September 30, 
2018  through September 2 8, 201 9):  
 
Parameter  Quantity  Units Boundary/ Protocol  
Clean Energy Use  5.71 Million mega watt 
hours ( mMWh) Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Prot ocol 
Avoided GHG Emissions  4.39  Million metric tons 
of carbon dioxide 
equival ent 
(mMtCO 2e) Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Protocol  
Operational Capacity  2,713 Megawatts (MWac)  Apple suppliers  / Apple 
Internal Protocol  
  
Our Conclusion  
Based on the ass urance process and procedures conducted , we conclude that :  
• The Clean Energy Us e, Avoided GHG Emissions, and Op erational Capa city assertions show n 
above ar e materially correct and are a fair representati on of the data and information; and  
• Apple has establi shed appropriate system s for the collection, aggregation and analysis of 
releva nt environm ental information , and has implement ed underlying internal assurance 
practices that provide a reasonable degree of confidence that such information is complete 
and ac curate .  
 
Statement of independence, integrity  and competence  
Apex  has implemen ted a Co de of Ethics across the business to maintain  high ethical standards 
among staff in their day to day business activities.  We are particularly vigilant in the  prevention of 
conflicts of interest.   
No member of the assurance team has a business relati onship w ith Apple , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification independent ly, and there 
has been no confl ict of interest .  
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting verification an d assura nce over 
environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes , has over 30 
years combined experience in this field and an  excellent understandin g of Apex standard 
methodology for the Assurance of Sustainability Re ports .  
Attestation:  
        
Trevor A. Donaghu , Lead Assuror   John Rohde , Technical Reviewer  
Program Manager  Practice Lead  
Sustainability and Climate Change Servi ces Sustainability and Climate Change Services  
 
March 25, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Comprehensive  Fiber Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 1 Review Statement  
Comprehensive  Fiber Footprint  
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s c omprehensive fiber footprint data related to  corporate 
fiber usage from products, corporate,  and retail operations  in fiscal year 2019.  
1 Summary  
This review checks transparenc y of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product and packaging related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the 
calculated corporate annual fiber footprint of Apple products shipped in fiscal year 201 9 
and of corporate and ret ail operations in the same period .  
As there is no standardised method available for calculating a product or company fiber 
footprint Apple defined a methodology  for internal use. The scope of the Fiber Footprint 
includes Apple’s corporate fiber usage from products, corporate,  and retail operations . The 
fiber footprint tracks the total amount of wood , bamboo , and bagasse fiber, both virgin 
and recycled,  that Apple  uses in packaging, and other paper products. Apple  obtain s and 
analyses  supplier -specific data for each product line and sums up these figures for the 
entire company using sell -in numbers.  The output is a total fiber footprint.   
The review of the corporate annual fiber  footprint has considered the following criteria:  
The system boundaries are clear ly defined  
Assumptions and estimations made are app ropriate  
Use of supplier  data is appropriate and methodologies used are adequately 
disclosed  
Data reported by Apple is as follows:  
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment88 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Comprehensive  Fiber Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 2 2019 Total Fiber  Virgin Fiber  Recycled Fiber  
Packaging Fiber  173,500  63,0 00 110,500  
Retail Bag Fiber  1,500  500 1,000  
Corporate Fiber  1,500  500 1,000  
Total  176,500 64,000 112,500 
[metric tons fiber]  [metric tons fiber]  [metric tons fiber]  
 
All results and figures reviewed for fiscal year 201 9 are plausible.  
2 Reviewed Data and Findings  
As part of this review Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:   
Calculation methodology for the c orporate  fiber footprint  
Sales data for FY2019 , including accessories  
Aggregated fiber data for all products  and t he total co rporate  fiber footprint for 
the fiscal year 2019 
The methodology paper ( Fiber Footprint at Apple  - Methodology Description - V1.1) 
provided by Apple and reviewed in 2017 , is considered a sound and appropriate guidance 
for determining the company fiber footprint. Wher e appropriate, this approach follows 
methodological principles applied for state- of-the-art Life Cycle Assessments.  
This review comprises a check of packaging fiber  data for selected products (iPhone  XR, 
iPhone XS Max , AirPods with wir eless case ). 
Plausibi lity of some data has been questioned and discussed with Apple in detail. 
Corrections were made accordingly .This review was done remotely.  All questions raised in 
the course of the review were answered by Apple.   
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment89 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Comprehensive  Fiber Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 3 Based on the process and procedures conduc ted, there is no evidence that the corporate 
fiber footprint  is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of fiber  data and 
information .  
 
Berlin, April 18 , 2020  
  
  
- Marina Proske -  - Karsten Schischke - 
Fraunhofer IZM  Fraunhof er IZM  
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and   
Reliability Engineering   Reliability Engineering  
 
 
 
Reviewer Credentials and Qualification  
Marina Proske: Experience and background in the field of Life Cycle Assessments include  
Life Cycle Assessment course an d exam as part of the Environmental Engineering studies (Dipl. -Ing. 
Technischer Umweltschutz, Technische Universität Berlin, 2009)  
Critical Reviews of LCA studies incl. water, fiber and plastic footprints since 2012 for 2 industry clients 
and of the EPEAT Environmental Benefits Calculator  
Life Cycle Assessment of a modular smartphone (Fairphone 2)  
Studies on the environmental assessment and carbon footprint  of ICT  
Studies on material and lifetime aspects within the MEErP methodology  
Further updated information at: https://de.linkedin.com/in/marina -proske -74347164/en   
 
Karsten Schischke: Experience and background in the field of Life Cycle Assessments include  
Life Cycle Assessment course an d exam as part of the Environmental Engineering studies (Dipl. -Ing. 
Technischer Umweltschutz, Technische Universität Berlin, 1999)  
More than 100 Critical Reviews of LCA studies since 2005 (batteries, displays, mobile devices, 
networked ICT equipment, home automation devices, servers, desktop computers) for 5 different 
industry clients and of the EPEAT Environmental Benefits Calculator  
Coordination of and contribution to compilation of more than 100 ELCD datasets (available at 
www.lca2go.eu; product groups: hard disk drives, semiconductors, printed circuit boards, 
photovoltaics)  
Environmental Lifecycle Assessments following the MEEuP / MEErP methodology in several Ecodesign 
Product Group Studies under the European Ecodesign Directive since 2007 (external powe r supplies, 
complex set -top boxes, machine tools, welding equipment)  
Various environmental gate- to-gate assessments in research projects since 2000 (wafer bumping, 
printed circuit board manufacturing)  
Further updated information at: www.linkedin.com/in/karsten -schischke   
 
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment90 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 1 Review Statement  
Corporate  Packaging Plastic Footprint  
Fraunhofer IZM reviewed Apple’s c orporate  packaging plastic  footprint data related to  
corporate packaging plastic usage from product s and retail operations in fiscal year 2019 .  
1 Summary  
This review ch ecks transparency of data and calculations, appropriateness of supporting 
product and packaging related data and assumptions, and overall plausibility of the 
calculated corporate annual packaging plastic  footprint of Apple products shipped in fiscal 
year 2 019 and of retail operations in the same period .  
As there is no standardised method available for calculating a packaging plastic  footprint 
Apple defined a methodology  for internal use. The scope of the plastic packaging footprint  
includes Apple’s corpora te packaging plastic  usage from products  and retail operations . 
The packaging plastic  footprint  tracks the total amount of plastic, adhesives, and ink , that 
Apple  uses in packaging. Apple  obtains and analyses  supplier -specific data for each product 
line an d sum s up these figures for the entire  company using sell -in numbers.  The output is 
a total packag ing plastic  footprint.   
The review of the corporate annual packaging plastic  footprint has considered the 
following criteria:  
The system boundaries are clearl y defined  
Assumptions and estimations made are app ropriate  
Use of supplier  data is appropriate and methodologies used are adequately 
disclosed  
Data reported by Apple is as follows:  
 Total Plastic  Packaging Plastic  Retail Bags  
2019  16,000  15,500  500 
 [metric tons plastic ] [metric tons plastic ] [metric tons plastic]  
 
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment91 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 2 The main drivers for the plastic packaging footprint are adhesives, OPP ( oriented 
polypropylene ) and HIPS (h igh-impact polystyrene ).  
All results and figures reviewed for fiscal year 201 9 are plausible.  
2 Reviewed Data and Findings  
As part of this review Apple disclosed following data to Fraunhofer IZM:   
Calculation methodology for the c orporate  packaging plastic  footprint  
Sales data for FY2019 , including accessories  
Selected p roduct and supplie r specific data on packaging materials  and production 
yields   
Aggregated packaging plastic  data for all products  and t he total co rporate  
packaging plastic  footprint for the fiscal year 201 9 
The methodology paper provided by Apple ( Packaging Plastic Footpri nt at Apple  – 
Methodology Description  – V1.0) in 2018 , is considered a sound and appropriate guidance 
for determining the company packaging plastic . Where appropriate, this approach follows 
methodological principles applied for state- of-the-art Life Cycle Assessments.   
This review comprises a check of packaging plastic  data for selected products  (iPhone  XR, 
iPhone XS Max, AirPods with wireless case). 
Plausibility of some data has been questioned and discussed with Apple in detail. 
Corrections were made acco rdingly . Similarly, s cope for the packaging plastic and fibre 
footprint have been discussed .  
This review was done remotely.  All questions raised in the course of the review were 
answered by Apple and related evidence was provided where needed.   
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment92 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Corporate  Packaging Plastic  Footprint  Review  
Client: Apple Inc. 3 Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the corporate 
packaging plastic  footprint  is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of 
plastic  data and information. The excellent analysis meets the principles of good scient ific 
practice . 
 
Berlin, April 18 , 2020  
  
  
- Marina Proske -  - Karsten Schischke - 
Fraunhofer IZM  Fraunhof er IZM  
Dept. Environmental and Dept. Environmental and   
Reliability Engineering   Reliability Engineering  
 
 
 
Reviewer Credentials and Qualification  
Marina Proske: Experience and background in the field of Life Cycle Assessments include  
Life Cycle Assessment course and exam as part of the Environmental Engineering studies (Dipl. -Ing. 
Technischer Umweltschutz, Technische Universität Berlin, 2009)  
Critical Reviews of LCA studies incl. water, fiber and plastic footprints since 2012 for 2 industry clients 
and of the EPEAT Environmental Benefits Calculator  
Life Cycle Assessment of a modular smartphone (Fairphone 2)  
Studies on the environmental assessment an d carbon footprint  of ICT  
Studies on material and lifetime aspects within the MEErP methodology  
Further updated information at: https://de.linkedin.com/in/marina -proske -74347164/en   
 
Karsten Schischke: Experience and background in the field of Life Cycle Assessments include  
Life Cycle Assessment course and exam as part of the Environmental Engineering studies (Dipl. -Ing. 
Technischer Umweltschutz, Technische Universität Berlin, 1999)  
More than 100 Critical Reviews of LCA studies since 2005 (batteries, displays, mobile devices, 
networked ICT equipment, home automation devices, servers, desktop computers) for 5 different 
industry clients and of the EPEAT Environmental Benefits Calculator  
Coor dination of and contribution to compilation of more than 100 ELCD datasets (available at 
www.lca2go.eu; product groups: hard disk drives, semiconductors, printed circuit boards, 
photovoltaics)  
Environmental Lifecycle Assessments following the MEEuP / MEErP methodology in several Ecodesign 
Product Group Studies under the European Ecodesign Directive since 2007 (external power supplies, 
complex set -top boxes, machine tools, welding equipment)  
Various environmental gate- to-gate assessments in research projects  since 2000 (wafer bumping, 
printed circuit board manufacturing)  
Further updated information at: www.linkedin.com/in/karsten -schischke    
2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment93 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAppendix D
Environmental
health and safety
policy statement
Mission statement
Apple Inc. is committed to protecting the environment, health, and safety of our employees, 
customers, and the global communities where we operate.
We recognize that by integrating sound environmental, health, and safety management practices 
into all aspects of our business, we can offer technologically innovative products and services 
while conserving and enhancing resources for future generations.
Apple strives for continuous improvement in our environmental, health, and safety management 
systems and in the environmental quality of our products, processes, and services.
Guiding principles
Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health, and safety requirements. We will 
evaluate our EHS performance by monitoring ongoing performance results and through 
periodic management reviews.
Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will adopt our own standards 
to protect human health and the environment.
Support and promote sound scientific principles and fiscally responsible public policy that enhance 
environmental quality, health and safety.
Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health, and safety principles and practices 
by our contractors, vendors, and suppliers.
Communicate environmental, health, and safety policies and programs to Apple employees 
and stakeholders.
Design, manage, and operate our facilities to maximize safety, promote energy and water efficiency, 
and protect the environment.
Strive to create products that are safe in their intended use, conserve energy and resources, 
and prevent pollution throughout the product life cycle including design, manufacture, 
use, and end-of -life management.
Ensure that all employees are aware of their role and responsibility to fulfill and sustain Apple’s 
environmental, health, and safety management systems and policy.
Luca Maestri,  
Senior Vice President and CFO  
January 2020
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment94 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAppendix E
ISO 14001 
certification 
Apple operates manufacturing facilities in Cork, Ireland.  
We certify 100 percent of these facilities with ISO 14001.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment95 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment96 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix2020  Environmental Progress Reportapple.com/environment97 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixAbout 
this report
This report is published annually in April and covers 
fiscal year 2019 activities, unless otherwise noted. 
This report addresses environmental impacts and activities 
at Apple facilities (corporate offices, data centers, and retail 
stores), as well as the life cycle impacts of our products, 
including in the manufacturing, transportation, use, 
and end-of-life phases.
To provide feedback on this report, please contact  
environment-report@apple.com
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment98 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry AppendixEnd notes
1. The Taptic Engine represents 24 to 28 percent of the total rare 
earth elements used in these devices.
2. Power adapter efficiency: Efficiency when tested at 100 percent, 
75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of the power adapter’s 
rated output current with the inbox cable.
3. Eligible products are those in a product category for which 
ENERGY STAR certification exists.
4. Based on sales-weighted averages of Mac, iPad, iPhone, 
Apple Watch, Apple TV, HomePod, AirPods, and Beats.
5. Eligible products are those in a product category for which EPEAT 
registration exists, which includes desktop computers, notebook 
computers, computer displays, and mobile phones.
6. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Global Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Data: www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/global-greenhouse-
gas-emissions-data
7. U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator:  
www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator
8. Greenhouse gas equivalency is calculated using the 
U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator:  
www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator
9. International and industry standards with F-GHG reduction 
strategies include the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
Assessment Reports, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP), IEEE 1680.1 
Standard, and UL 110 Standard. 
10. These final assembly supplier sites are third-party certified as 
Zero Waste by UL LLC (UL 2799 Standard). UL requires at least 
90 percent diversion through methods other than waste to energy 
to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill (Silver 90–94 percent, Gold  
95–99 percent, and Platinum 100 percent) designations.
11. For those materials that can only be made from recycled sources, 
we do not require additional verification.
12. Responsible sourcing of wood fiber is defined in Apple’s 
Sustainable Fiber Specification (PDF). We consider wood fibers 
to include bamboo.
13. U.S. retail packaging is 90 percent fiber-based by weight.
14. Based on expected equivalent fiber production from our forestry 
projects and virgin fiber used for Apple product packaging. 
To determine the output of Apple’s projects, we work with our 
partners to understand the productive potential of these working 
forests. The forest management plans required to achieve 
or maintain certification limit harvest volumes to sustainable 
levels. We use these potential harvest volumes to estimate 
the sustainable productive capacity of these forests.15. As measured by the App Store on January 27, 2020.
16. Total does not include construction and demolition waste 
nor electronic waste for 2018 or 2019.
17. Diversion rates do not include construction and demolition waste 
or electronic waste for 2018 or 2019. 
18. Assumes an average garbage truck weight of 13 metric tons: 
https://www.scdhec.gov/environment/land-and-waste-landfills/
how-landfills-work
19. These final assembly supplier sites are third-party certified as 
Zero Waste by UL LLC (UL 2799 Standard). UL requires at least  
90 percent diversion through methods other than waste to 
energy to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill (Silver 90-94 percent, 
Gold 95-99 percent and Platinum 100 percent) designations.
20. Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the 
exception of AC power cords in India, Thailand, and South Korea, 
where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC and 
phthalates replacement. While Apple’s phaseout of BFRs covers 
the vast majority of products and components, Beddit products 
and some older Apple product designs may not be fully BFR-free 
and PVC-free. Apple products comply with the European Union 
Directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions 
for the use of lead. Apple is working to phase out the use of these 
exempted substances where technically possible.
21. Every Apple product is free of PVC and phthalates with the 
exception of AC power cords in India, Thailand, and South Korea, 
where we continue to seek government approval for our PVC 
and phthalates replacement. 
22.  While Apple’s phaseout of BFRs covers the vast majority of 
products and components, Beddit products and some older Apple 
product designs may not be fully BFR-free and PVC-free. 
23.  Apple products comply with the European Union Directive 
2011/65/EU and its amendments, including exemptions for the use 
of lead. Apple is working to phase out the use of these exempted 
substances where technically possible. 
24. Arsenic is present in minuscule quantities in some 
semiconductor devices.
 © 2020 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple and the Apple logo 
are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries. Beats is a trademark of Beats Electronics, LLC., registered
in the U.S. and other countries. IOS is a trademark or registered
trademark of Cisco in the U.S. and other countries and is used under
license. ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY STAR mark are registered
trademarks owned by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Other product and company names mentioned herein may be
trademarks of their respective companies.
2020  Environmental Progress Report
apple.com/environment99 Introduction Climate Change Resources Smarter Chemistry Appendix