2020 NVIDIA
CORPORATE SOCIAL  
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT2EXECUTIVE  
LETTERS
03  Letter from our CEO
05  Letter from our EVP of Operations
PRIORITIES
07  Setting Priorities
09  Mapping Priorities to the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals
STAKEHOLDER  
ENGAGEMENT
GOVERNANCE
15  Board Governance  
16  Compliance  
17  Ethical Conduct  
18  Transparency
ECONOMIC
19  PRIORITY: Innovation
20  PRIORITY: Business Model  
 and Competitiveness
21  PRIORITY: Cybersecurity
22  PRIORITY:  Trade Issues
23  Business Continuity Management
24  Customer Relations
25  Brand and Reputation
26  Public Policy Engagement01
02
03
04
05SOCIAL
28  PRIORITY:  Supply Chain  
Management and Product Quality
35  PRIORITY:  Employee Health  
and Safety
36  PRIORITY:  Talent Strategy
39  PRIORITY:  Diversity and Inclusion
43  Employee Engagement
46  Product Safety
46  Materials Availability
47  Societal Impacts of AI
49  Philanthropy and Volunteerism
ENVIRONMENTAL
51  Management System
52  Greenhouse Gas Emissions and  
Climate Change
54  Energy, Water, Waste
56  Facilities Management
57  Environmental Impact of Products
61  Packaging, Transport, and Logistics
GOALS AND  
PERFORMANCE
62  FY20 Goals and Performance
64  FY21 Goals
65  Economic Performance
66  Diversity Performance
68  Workforce Performance
69  Environmental Performance
72  Employee Health and Safety 
Performance
72  GRI Index
81   SASB Index
85  TCFD Index
ABOUT THIS REPORT06
07
08TABLE OF CONTENTS3
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORTEXECUTIVE LETTERS01
LETTER FROM OUR CEO 
CEO Jensen Huang’s Opening Comments at 2020 Annual  
Meeting of Stockholders.  
I want to take the opportunity to address the heartbreaking  
events of the past weeks in America as we confront painful  
racial inequities and prejudice that exist to this day. 
We are deeply sorry for the pain, despair, and injustice 
that black communities continue to endure. We stand 
with them. Racism must end.
These tragic events force us to confront the fact that 
the world is not equal. It is not enough to not be a racist 
—we must be anti-racists. Exercise our citizenship to  
push for legislative reforms to end police brutality 
and racial injustice. Stand with social movements that 
protest peacefully for real change and reform. NVIDIA 
stands with them.Corporations must also act. NVIDIA must act. It is not 
enough to just be a well-intended, inclusive employer, 
and provide equal opportunities for blacks.   We must 
purposefully and systematically create opportunities 
for black employees.  Starting with me, we will elevate 
the urgency of increasing the black population at every 
level of our company and do our part to fight racism.
We’re fighting a two-front war. The world is still 
confronting COVID-19, one of the greatest challenges in  
human history. In just a few months, a pathogen 1,000th 
the width of a human hair has circled the globe and 
shaken society to its core.
We owe our thanks to those on the front lines of this 
crisis: first responders, healthcare workers, and 
service providers who inspire us every day with their 
bravery and selflessness. “It is not enough to just be a well-intended, inclusive employer, and provide equal opportunities for blacks.  We must purposefully and systematically 
create opportunities for black employees. Starting with me, we will elevate the urgency of increasing the black population at every level of our 
company and do our part to fight racism.”
– Jensen Huang, CEO4
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  EXECUTIVE  LETTERS
Billions around the world are 
sheltering at home, doing their 
part to slow the spread of the virus. 
Many are unable to make a living or 
are struggling to do their jobs while 
caring for their families. At NVIDIA, 
we closed our nearly 60 offices 
around the world. We continue to 
pay contractors their full wages 
despite reduced staffing needs in 
our facilities. We gave employees 
raises early to put a little more 
money in their hands. Paying it 
forward, our employees have 
donated more than $10 million to 
help their communities.
NVIDIA is aiming our technology, 
our superpower, at COVID-19. When 
every second counts and much is 
at stake, scientists gear up with 
NVIDIA to jump to light speed. They  
are using NVIDIA-accelerated 
computing to sequence and image 
the virus, search for a vaccine or 
treatment, and build AI robots to 
disinfect hospitals.  
COVID-19 will not be the last virus, 
but it can be the last pandemic.  
We must start now to prepare for 
future outbreaks. Working with the 
international scientific community, 
we will develop an end-to-end  
computational defense system to  
detect threats earlier, contain the  
spread, speed vaccine development,  
and continuously test and monitor. 
This pandemic will demand 
long-term structural changes to 
healthcare, transportation, retail, 
and manufacturing – the world’s 
largest industries. Our expertise 
in computing and AI will help 
industries rebuild.  Harnessing NVIDIA’s accelerated 
computing to save lives is the 
perfect example of our company’s 
purpose—to tackle problems 
that ordinary computers cannot. 
NVIDIA stands at the intersection 
of two powerful technology forces 
—accelerated computing and AI. 
The computers we build are time 
machines that let scientists see the 
future today—rocket ships that  
take researchers to the furthest 
frontiers of science. With NVIDIA,  
scientists explore our universe 
from the quantum to the galactic  
scale and seek deeper understanding  
of humanity from the science of life 
to the mystery of intelligence.
Our company is advancing some  
of the most important technologies  
of our time. Our inventions help 
researchers tackle incredible 
scientific, industrial, and social 
challenges. Our company’s purpose 
has never been more vital.
Jensen Huang  
CEO and Co-Founder, NVIDIA5
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  EXECUTIVE  LETTERS
Our CSR efforts 
build on our long 
track record of 
working hard 
every day to be 
a responsible 
corporate citizen 
by integrating 
sound social and 
environmental 
principles 
and practices 
throughout our 
enterprise.LETTER FROM 
OUR EVP OF 
OPERATIONS
Here at NVIDIA, we’re in the 
business of inventing revolutionary 
technologies that improve lives and 
address global challenges. 
As I write this, the COVID-19 
pandemic is challenging us to look 
for new ways to manage life and 
work while protecting our families. 
NVIDIA was early to join the global 
effort to slow the spread of the 
virus. We began closing our offices 
in the Asia-Pacific region at the 
end of January, and by March, we 
had closed our offices around the 
world. We urged our employees 
to make their health and their 
families’ health their top priority, 
and began providing resources 
to employees to work remotely. 
For the few facilities engaged in 
essential tasks, we’re following the 
highest standard of protection for 
our people and recognizing their 
efforts with bonuses. I also want to 
acknowledge the incredible efforts 
of our colleagues here at NVIDIA. 
Despite many challenges, they have 
barely broken stride during one of 
the busiest periods in our history. We’re also on the front lines of 
enabling medical researchers to 
turbocharge their coronavirus 
treatment and research projects.  
A short list includes:
 >We joined the COVID-19 High 
Performance Computing 
Consortium, a collaboration 
with the White House Office of 
Science and Technology Policy, 
the U.S. Department of Energy, 
several technology companies, 
and national labs. The effort will 
help researchers everywhere 
better understand the virus, its 
treatments, and potential cures.
 >We donated $430,000 to  
Wuhan University for treatment 
and research. Zhongnan 
Hospital physicians are using  
GPU-accelerated AI software  
to quickly detect patients 
who may have COVID-19. The 
software has been deployed  
to 34 hospitals in China.
 >We’re providing any coronavirus 
researcher a free 90-day license 
to Parabricks, a version of the 
Genome Analysis Toolkit that uses 
GPUs to accelerate analysis by a 
factor of 50.
 >We issued a global call to action 
for PC gamers to contribute their 
idle GPU and CPU processing 
power to “fold” against the 
coronavirus. Folding@home is a distributed computing project 
that uses volunteers’ computer 
processing for disease research 
that simulates protein folding, 
computational drug design, and  
other types of molecular dynamics.  
The response has broken records 
as hundreds of thousands of new 
users join the effort.6
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  EXECUTIVE  LETTERS
These efforts build on our long 
track record of working hard every 
day to be a responsible corporate 
citizen by integrating sound social 
and environmental principles and  
practices throughout our enterprise.  
Recent events have underscored the 
importance of companies playing  
a role in creating a more just society.  
In response, we’re redoubling our  
efforts to listen and learn 
from Black NVIDIANs, create 
opportunities within our company 
for them, and build a network 
of Black talent. This includes 
creating a focused recruiting 
team, deepening relationships 
with Historically Black Colleges 
and Universities, and expanding 
opportunities for Black and other 
underrepresented developers 
throughout NVIDIA’s ecosystem. 
It all begins by providing a great 
place to work that fosters an 
atmosphere of creativity and  
innovation. This has been repeatedly  
recognized by Fortune, Glassdoor, 
and other outlets that feature us on 
their best places to work lists. 
Our design teams build the most 
energy-efficient technologies 
possible using environmental 
practices designed to mitigate 
climate change and promote 
sustainability. We invest in and give 
back to our local communities and 
global society at large. Through  
our conscientious business 
practices, we work hard to protect 
the human rights of all workers in 
our supply chain.
Our CSR priorities revolve around 
these key business areas: business 
model and competitiveness, 
cybersecurity, diversity and inclusion,  
employee health and safety, 
innovation, supply chain and product  
quality, talent management 
strategy, and trade issues. Strategies  
for achieving our business objectives 
include:  >Designing power-efficient products 
with a strong social impact.
 >Increasing employee diversity and 
fostering inclusion, especially 
with members of the Black 
community
 >Minimizing risk in our supply chain 
and upholding the highest quality 
standards.
 >Reducing our energy footprint to 
address climate change.
 >Evaluating emerging risks and 
opportunities related to growing 
our brand.
 >Setting goals and monitoring our 
progress toward them.
We’ve made significant progress 
against our CSR and business 
objectives over the past few years.  
For example, our AI healthcare 
business has grown significantly, and 
we’ve rolled out generous parental 
benefits for our employees.  
In 2019, the Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee 
of our Board of Directors began 
to oversee CSR processes and 
we again received top industry 
rankings for CSR, innovation, 
gender equality, and other key 
areas. We continue to attract and 
retain top talent. 
In partnership with our stakeholders,  
we increase our relevance, 
responsiveness, and resilience 
each year. During this uniquely 
challenging time, we look forward to 
transforming more bold new ideas 
into tangible products that solve 
big problems and uplift the human 
spirit. 
Sincerely,
Debora Shoquist  
Executive Vice President of 
Operations, NVIDIA7
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT02PRIORITIES
SETTING PRIORITIES
We update our issue analysis each year to ensure that our  
priorities continue to align with stakeholder expectations,  
market trends, and business risks and opportunities. 
For FY20, we reconfirmed the six priority issues we 
identified in FY19. In FY21, we added as priority issues 
Employee Health and Safety, due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, and Diversity and Inclusion, as a recognition 
of our need to increase hiring from Black and other 
underrepresented communities. These issues are 
essential to our continued business success and  
reflect the topics of highest concern to NVIDIA and  
our stakeholders:
 >Competitiveness/Business Model  
 >Cybersecurity
 >Diversity and Inclusion
 >Employee Health and Safety 
 >Innovation
 >Supply Chain Management/Product Quality
 >Talent Strategy
 >Trade IssuesA strategic focus on these areas enables us to build 
a more agile, future-oriented company. We annually 
implement several initiatives related to our priorities, 
which provide varying levels of return according to  
the business goals assigned to the topic.
We determine our priorities in three stages:
 >Throughout the year, the CSR Committee uses several 
methods to collect input from internal and external 
stakeholders regarding their priorities. Each issue is 
assigned a quantitative score based on this input.
 >Members of the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee of our Board of Directors plus several 
executive staff members review these issues, which 
stakeholders have individually ranked according to 
their values. This information is evaluated in the context 
of our changing business, internal enterprise risk 
discussions, and reports filed with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission.
 >The CSR Committee positions the issues on a matrix 
according to stakeholder and executive preferences, 
which visually highlights the most important issues to 
external stakeholders and executives.8
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  PRIORITIESHIGH LOWSTAKEHOLDER CONCERNGHG Emissions and Climate Change
Transport and Logistics
Recycling and E-wasteEmployee Engagement
Facilities Management
Product SafetyTransparencyBusiness ContinuityTrade IssuesSupply Chain Management/Product Quality
CybersecurityCompetitive/Business Model
Talent StrategyInnovation
Customer Relations
Ethical ConductHuman Rights
Diversity and InclusionEmployee Health and Safety
Water
Envioronmental Impact of ProductsMaterials Availability
Community EngagementSocietal Impactof AI
ComplianceCorporate GovernancePublic Policy Engagement
Supplier Environmental Management
Brand and ReputationWasteEnergy
IMPACT ON COMPANYHIGH LOWNVIDIA FY20/FY21 CSR PRIORITIES
Findings from our FY20 priorities assessment resulted in the following adjustments compared to the prior year:  
 
 >In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, we increased the ranking 
of Employee Health and Safety to that of a priority issue.
 >To place a focus on increasing hiring from Black and other 
underrepresented communities, we elevated Diversity and 
Inclusion to priority issue status. 
 >We made three definition changes: 1) added “pay equity” 
to Diversity and Inclusion; 2) added “managing for 
production disruptions” under Supply Chain Management 
and Product Quality; and 3) added “immigration concerns” 
to Talent Strategy.  >We removed Anti-Corruption as a standalone issue and 
incorporated it into Ethical Conduct.
 >We increased the priority ranking of Brand and Reputation, 
Climate Change, and Societal Impacts of AI. 
 >Stakeholders increased the priority ranking of  
Materials Availability.
Our priorities are addressed in subsequent sections of this report. We define each issue, discuss why it’s important to NVIDIA, 
how we manage it, and disclose any relevant performance data. 9
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  PRIORITIES
MAPPING PRIORITIES TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
PRIORITY: INNOVATION
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
GOALNVIDIA ACTION/INITIATIVE
AI, Accelerated Computing Drive Shift to Personalized Healthcare : The genomics community 
continues to extract new insights from DNA. Recent breakthroughs include single-cell sequencing 
to understand mutations at a cellular level, and liquid biopsies that detect and monitor cancer 
using blood for circulating DNA. But genomic analysis has traditionally been a computational 
bottleneck in the sequencing pipeline—one that can be surmounted using GPU acceleration. To 
deliver a roadmap of continuing GPU acceleration for key genomic analysis pipelines, the team 
at Parabricks—an Ann Arbor, Michigan-based developer of GPU software for genomics—is 
joining NVIDIA’s healthcare team.
NVIDIA Collaborates with UCSF on AI Center for Radiology : Integrating AI into the radiology 
workflow can help medical institutions keep pace with an ever-growing stream of medical imaging 
data. The number of images acquired during common studies like MRI and CT scans has swelled 
in recent years from tens of images each to hundreds or thousands. It’s a challenge compounded 
by a rise in the number of patients being imaged. University of California, San Francisco, one of 
the world’s top medical schools for research, has unveiled a center to develop AI tools for clinical 
radiology—using the NVIDIA Clara healthcare toolkit and the powerful NVIDIA DGX-2 AI system. 
AI and Machine Learning Advance Academic Research : Universities and research institutes 
around the world are important drivers of discovery and innovation, and professors and 
researchers are looking for answers to the biggest questions facing each academic discipline. 
With powerful NVIDIA GPU computing resources, academics can use AI, machine learning, and 
data science to more swiftly advance knowledge in fields such as astrophysics and astronomy, 
biology, earth and climate science, humanities, medicine, and physics.
NVIDIA Selected to Contribute to Industry Safety Group : NVIDIA works with key international 
organizations that are formulating standards and regulations for automated vehicles. NVIDIA  
is also heading one of the European Association of Automotive Suppliers expert groups on 
highly connected automated vehicles. We’re also working with ASAM, a standardization 
organization based in Germany to update the language and testing standards for simulation 
testing. Through the collaboration we’re defining an open standard for creating simulation 
scenarios, describing road topology representation, sensor models, world models, as well  
as the criteria and key performance indices for the industry to advance validation methods  
for autonomous vehicle deployment.10
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  PRIORITIES
PRIORITY: TALENT STRATEGY
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
GOALNVIDIA ACTION/INITIATIVE
Developer Diversity and Inclusion at NVIDIA’s GPU Technology Conference : NVIDIA has strived 
to make its annual developer conference, GTC, a more inclusive event with annual networking 
events for women. At GTC19, we expanded our offerings  for women with a daylong, invite-only 
event featuring guest speakers and hands-on AI training at several of our regional conferences. 
At GTC DC in November, we worked to increase the number of attendees from Black and Latinx 
communities by partnering with universities and professional groups to host daylong training 
and a networking reception. The number of women attending our November event increased 60 
percent from the year prior.
NVIDIA Showcases Diversity of Talent at NeurIPS : At NeurIPS, the world’s premier event focused 
on neural networks, NVIDIA sponsored all four diversity workshops, including Women in Machine 
Learning, Black in AI, LatinX in AI and Queer in AI. 
PRIORITY: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
GOALNVIDIA ACTION/INITIATIVE
AI in the Sky Aids Feet on the Ground Spotting Human Rights Violations : At NVIDIA’s GTC19, 
Human Rights Watch discussed its new tools for monitoring human rights violations, including 
remote sensing via satellite and drone data, analytics from public datasets, and investigations 
using videos and photos posted to social media. The nonprofit is partnering on this work with global  
AI software provider Element AI which leverages NVIDIA GPUs.11
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORTSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT03
Engaging our diverse stakeholders on important issues  
is integral to how we do business. We define stakeholders  
as entities or individuals who can be affected by NVIDIA 
and whose actions can affect the company, and we engage  
with them in numerous ways on a variety of topics 
throughout the year. We rely on our annual priority issue  
assessment to help us understand the issues that matter  
most to them. This allows us to focus our engagement and transparently respond to their concerns. Although 
we do not have a formal stakeholder advisory panel for 
CSR issues, at least one member of the CSR committee 
evaluates each stakeholder request to determine what 
type of response is appropriate.
FY20 INTERACTIONS:
STAKEHOLDER FY20 INTERACTIONS
Board of Directors We presented our CSR strategy, programs, and risks to the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee.
We briefed the full Board of Directors on the final priority issues assessment after incorporating 
the committee’s feedback.
We presented a diversity and inclusion overview to the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee and the full Board of Directors received a brief on the Societal Impacts of AI. 
Attendance at each committee meeting where CSR was discussed averaged 90 percent. 12
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  STAKEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT
FY20 Interactions (cont.)
STAKEHOLDER FY20 INTERACTIONS
Communities We continued our engagement with the Santa Clara, Calif., and Bangalore, India, county 
departments on the development of new corporate campuses.
We engaged close to 4,300 youth through activities designed to help them excel in basic math 
skills and gain inspiration through tours of our technology center and career roundtables with 
NVIDIA engineers. These activities give youth access to innovative AI technology through  
hands-on activities. 
See the NVIDIA Foundation annual report  for FY20 activities in our communities.
Customers/
DevelopersWe provide customers with self-assessment questionnaires and participate in relevant working 
groups through our “Full” category membership in the Responsible Business Alliance. 
We received several requests per week from customers regarding product and social compliance, 
legal, and regulatory issues. 
Eight customers requested our participation in CDP.
We conducted an analysis of customer contracts to confirm that our priorities align with their 
requirements. 
We worked directly with customers to report our supplier status related to conflict minerals. 
We hosted developer conferences in seven countries, reaching nearly 21,000 people. We offered 
several hundred seats at these conferences for women and members of the Black and Latinx 
communities to increase diversity within the developer ecosystem. 
Employees and 
Prospective 
EmployeesOur last global employee survey yielded a 95 percent response rate. We are moving in FY21 to  
a pulse survey format.
We launched an updated Careers  and new Inclusion  site on nvidia.com. 
We held ongoing discussions between our CEO and resource groups (African-Americans, 
Hispanics, women, veterans, and early career employees) on topics such as bias in AI. 
We reached 19,000 underrepresented candidates at university and professional recruiting events. 
We launched our first internal career fair for employees interested in exploring new career 
opportunities within NVIDIA.
See Diversity and Inclusion  in the Social section for more FY20 interactions with  
prospective employees.13
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  STAKEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT
FY20 Interactions (cont.)
STAKEHOLDER FY20 INTERACTIONS
Government/Public 
Policy EngagementWe deepened our relationship with the United States House and Senate AI Caucus, the 
Congressional Tech Staff Association, and key officials in the legislative and executive branches. 
We engaged with the CTA, CompTIA, ESA, and SIA to provide feedback on their policy advocacy  
and development. 
We provided comments to and worked with NIST before their release of AI standards guidance .
We brought subject matter experts from NVIDIA to educate policy advisors in the House  
and Senate.
We led a monthly AI educational series for technology policy advisors in the House and Senate.
We led AI sessions for the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, the No. 1 tech 
think tank in the world according to the University of Pennsylvania.
We participated in convening the Congressional Tech Staff Association for networking and 
educational events.
We hosted several federal agencies at our fifth annual GPU Technology Conference  in 
Washington, D.C. (GTC DC).
We supported Congressional programs to build tech opportunities for historically Black colleges 
and universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs), including the HBCU Caucus 
Innovation House and educational scholarships for Black and Latinx communities at GTC DC.
We convened policymakers  from Congress, the Administration, and the nonprofit community 
for policy panels at GTC DC. This included bringing together key Congressional staff and Policy 
Advisors in DHS  to discuss AI in cybersecurity, and conversations with key OSTP and NIST 
officials .
Nongovernmental 
OrganizationsWe scored 100 percent in the Human Rights Watch Corporate Equality Index for a fifth year.
We engaged with the Corporate Human Rights Benchmark, the Global Child Forum, Know the 
Chain benchmark, Children’s Rights Benchmark, and the World Benchmarking Alliance Digital 
Inclusion Benchmark.
Research/Ratings 
OrganizationsWe were featured for a sixth consecutive year as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index. We remained on the FTSE4Good index, the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index, the 100 
Best Corporate Citizens list, Barron’s Top 100 Most Sustainable Companies, and Forbes’ JUST 
100 ranking. We debuted on Equileap’s Gender Equality Index. 
We were featured for the fourth year on Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to Work For list at No. 27. 
Overall, we interacted with 11 research/ratings organizations: Blendoor, Corporate Knights, 
FTSE4Good, ISS, MSCI, Oekom, RepTrak, RobecoSAM, Sustainalytics, Trucost, and Vigeo Eiris.14
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  STAKEHOLDER  ENGAGEMENT
FY20 Interactions (cont.)
STAKEHOLDER FY20 INTERACTIONS
Shareholders We participated in the CDP for the 11th year and achieved an A- on our climate change response 
and a B- on our water security response. 
We presented CSR issues to shareholders holding 19 percent in aggregate of our common 
stock during the company’s annual outreach meetings. Topics covered included: human capital 
management, societal impacts of AI, diversity and inclusion at the company and Board level, 
and Board involvement in CSR. 
Suppliers We conducted an ongoing evaluation of our suppliers using RBA analysis tools.
We sent an average of 23 requests to suppliers each week. 
See Supply Chain Management, FY20 RBA Member Compliance  to see the full range  
of activities we conducted in FY20, including 100 percent completion of risk assessment  
and self-assessment for all applicable suppliers, receipt of 10 VAP audits from high-spend 
suppliers, and reviewing audits of 45 percent of our strategic suppliers. 15
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT04GOVERNANCE
BOARD 
GOVERNANCE
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Board composition, independence 
of committees and leadership, 
anti-takeover measures, Board 
and named executive officer 
compensation
NVIDIA, including its Board of 
Directors, is committed to operating 
under sound principles of corporate 
governance. Our corporate 
governance structure ensures 
robust Board and management  
accountability and transparency to  
our shareholders, and promotes  
good decision-making now and for  
the future. To ensure that long-term  
interests are being served, our Board  
oversees management performance.  
Our overarching code of conduct, 
financial team code of conduct, 
corporate governance policies, 
Board committee charters, 
certificate of incorporation, and bylaws form the framework for 
governance  at NVIDIA.
As of the end of FY20, we had 12  
directors on our Board, and 11 of  
them (92 percent) were independent. 
The sole exception is Jensen Huang, 
who is also our founder, president, 
and chief executive officer. Our 
corporate governance policies permit  
the Board to designate either a 
chairperson of the Board or a lead 
independent director, which gives 
the Board flexibility in determining 
what is best for the company. At this  
time, NVIDIA has a lead director, 
Mark Perry, rather than a chairperson  
of the Board. In FY20, all directors  
attended at least 75 percent 
of meetings of the Board and 
committees on which they served.
Director compensation is reviewed 
by the Board’s Compensation 
Committee in consultation with a 
compensation consultant after an 
evaluation of peer group practices. 
Compensation is ultimately approved 
by our Board. We design our named  GOVERNANCE  
SNAPSHOT
11
of our 12 Board members  
are independent
 
DECLASSIFIED  
BOARD STRUCTURE
and all Board members  
serve one-year terms
 
INDEPENDENT  
DIRECTORS
which gives the Board flexibility 
in determining what is best for 
the company
 
MAJORITY VOTE
practices have been  
adopted voluntarily
 
SUCCESSION  
PLANNING
for the position of Chief 
Executive Officer is in place
 
ANNUAL  
PERFORMANCE  
EVALUATION
of Board and Board committees
 
PUBLIC  
DISCLOSURE OF
director nomination process, 
process access, and  
approach to Board diversity
 
18%
of our independent  
Board members are female 16
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOVERNANCE
executive officer (NEO) compensation  
program to pay for performance 
and to attract, motivate, and retain 
a high-caliber executive team. NEO  
pay is heavily weighted toward 
performance-based variable cash 
and long-term equity awards  
that are earned only if we achieve  
pre-established corporate 
financial metrics. Our executive 
compensation program requires 
executives to maintain meaningful 
stock ownership, and a clawback 
policy is in place for performance-
based compensation.
CSR Governance
The Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee (NCGC) 
of our Board is responsible for 
reviewing and discussing with 
management our practices with  
respect to environmental, social, 
and corporate governance. Our 
head of CSR reviews stakeholder 
inputs and our annual priority 
issues analysis with the NCGC each 
year. Our priority issues matrix 
includes issues that are of utmost 
importance to our stakeholders, 
such as climate change, human 
rights, and diversity and inclusion.  COMPLIANCE
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Compliance with all applicable 
policies, laws, and regulations, 
including fines/penalties 
We view compliance as the activities 
we undertake and the systems we  
establish and maintain to address 
environmental and social issues  
by adhering to laws and the 
requirements of governments and 
our customers. Compliance is the 
baseline that establishes the  
minimum standards to which we  
hold ourselves accountable. We are  
committed to comporting ourselves 
in accordance with the highest ethical  
standards regardless of whether there  
is a legal requirement to do so.
Governmental compliance is a 
critical component of our business 
strategy because it involves our 
license to operate in markets where 
we want to manufacture and sell  
our products, manage offices, and 
hire employees. We comply with 
all mandatory governmental 
regulations that apply to us in the  
communities in which we do business.  
We meet contractual obligations 
by also complying with our 
customers’ requirements.We employ social and environmental  
compliance engineers in our 
worldwide operations organization. 
These employees manage issues 
such as human rights, end-of-life 
recycling, hazardous substances, 
and conflict minerals in our supply 
chain. Our global legal and human 
resources teams receive regular 
guidance from legal counsel and 
industry associations on issues 
related to bribery, ethics, and  
hiring and labor practices. The 
sales operations team oversees 
our customers’ environmental, 
social, and ethics requirements 
and works cross-functionally 
to ensure the compliance of 
all related teams. In all these 
functions, we have established 
mechanisms to maintain active  
compliance, assess our performance,  
and anticipate impending 
requirements and regulations.  17
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOVERNANCE
ETHICAL 
CONDUCT
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Policies, systems, processes, and  
performance relating to ethical 
operation, anti-corruption, and 
anti-bribery, including ethics hotline  
and whistleblower protection
We strive to achieve the highest 
standards of ethical conduct in all  
our business dealings. Our codes  
of conduct and policies guide how 
we conduct ourselves in our  
professional relationships toward  
our customers, partners, competitors,  
vendors, government regulators, 
shareholders, fellow employees, 
and the community at large. Our  
longstanding code of conduct  
outlines our core values and 
establishes the expectations we  
have about how we conduct 
business. This code applies to all 
our executive officers, directors, 
and employees, and we expect all 
third parties we do business with,  
including consultants, contractors,  
and other service providers, to 
act in a manner consistent with it. 
In addition, we have established 
a financial code of conduct  that 
applies to our executive staff, 
directors, and members of our 
finance, accounting, tax, and 
treasury departments. 
Our commitment to promoting a 
culture of integrity means that we 
aim to foster an environment where 
everyone is expected to act ethically  
and where people can voice concerns  
without fear of retaliation. Anyone  
can confidentially and anonymously 
lodge a complaint about any 
accounting, internal control, 
auditing, code of conduct, conflict 
of interest, or other matter of 
concern using a corporate hotline ,  
which is hosted by an independent 
third party. By using an external organization to host the hotline, we  
ensure that our employees feel  
comfortable with anonymous 
reporting. We have a strict “no 
retaliation” policy regarding good 
faith reports of activities that run 
counter to our ethical expectations.
All NVIDIA employees receive ethics 
and sexual harassment training. They  
also complete training on our code of  
conduct, which covers environmental  
and social responsibility issues, 
upon hire and then every two years 
thereafter. In FY20 we rolled out a  
new code of conduct training globally,  
and as of April 2020, 97 percent of  
employees had completed this training. 
Our longstanding commitment to 
doing business with integrity means 
avoiding all forms of corruption. Our 
anti-corruption practices involve the 
steps that we and our employees 
take to ethically conduct business 
and preserve our ability to work 
with customers and governments. 
We specifically emphasize making 
ethical decisions, never engaging in 
bribery or insider trading, avoiding 
conflicts of interest, approaching 
competition ethically, complying 
with international trade regulations, practicing transparency, and 
maintaining accurate business 
records. To protect our company’s 
reputation, we have several policies 
related to these issues, and we 
expect employees to comply with 
them. We routinely test travel and 
entertainment claims in attempt 
to identify inappropriate payments 
in defiance of our code of conduct.  
Ninety-seven percent of employees 
who have frequent contact with 
customers, partners, and suppliers 
(such as those in sales, finance, 
and procurement) have completed 
additional global anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption training.18NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOVERNANCE
TRANSPARENCY
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Corporate responsibility 
transparency and disclosure (policies,  
level of disclosure, performance), 
external assurance, and direct 
stakeholder engagement
We promote a culture at NVIDIA 
that values integrity and prioritizes 
transparency across our entire 
business. We maintain high levels  
of transparency to build trust in a  
way that supports our business 
success. In this report, we discuss  
transparency as it relates to  
environmental, social, and 
governance issues. We report in  
accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative Standards at 
the Core level. Since 2012, we’ve 
engaged Trucost to assure that 
our GHG emissions data meets the 
AA1000 standard. 
We actively work in our priority issue  
areas to address business risks and 
improve performance. We publish 
dashboards  of key workforce, 
diversity, environmental, and supply 
chain metrics to give stakeholders 
insight into our performance. 
Throughout the year, we respond 
to several requests for information from customers and share data 
directly with shareholders. We  
have also increased our external 
positioning by providing data about 
our performance to environmental, 
social, and governance reporting 
firms, such as Bloomberg, CDP, ISS,  
JUST Companies, MSCI, RobecoSAM,  
and Sustainalytics. 
Since FY18, NVIDIA’s internal audit  
team has reviewed elements of our  
CSR program to ensure that the  
company has adequate governance 
structures. Our internal audit team 
benchmarked our CSR report 
against comparable companies 
and assessed program ownership, 
monitoring, and communications. 
Metrics the team has reviewed for  
accuracy include community giving,  
diversity and inclusion, economic, 
environmental, and workforce. Since 2012,  
we’ve engaged 
Trucost to assure 
that our GHG 
emissions data 
meets the AA1000  
standard.19
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORTECONOMIC05
PRIORITY: 
INNOVATION
WHAT IT COVERS:   
Innovation of new products, technology, and operational  
practices; enabling distributed innovation through 
support of developers who use NVIDIA products; 
intellectual property protection; research and development
The drive to innovate is embedded in NVIDIA’s DNA. Our 
invention of the GPU defined modern computer graphics 
and established us as the leader in visual computing.  
With our subsequent introduction of the CUDA programming  
model, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of 
the GPU for general purpose computing. We have since 
extended our research and development emphasis to 
the revolutionary field of AI. 
About 26 percent of our revenue in FY20 ($2.83 billion) 
funded R&D activities. In total, we have invested more 
than $20 billion in these efforts since our inception, yielding 
inventions that are essential to modern computing.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy that brings together 
hardware, system software, programmable algorithms, 
libraries, systems, and services to create unique value 
for the markets we serve. While the requirements of 
these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture, leveraging our GPUs 
and CUDA as the fundamental building blocks. The 
programmable nature of our architecture allows us to 
support several multibillion-dollar end markets with the  
same underlying technology by using a variety of software  
stacks developed either internally or by third-party 
developers and partners. We specialize in markets in 
which GPU-based visual computing and accelerated 
computing platforms can provide tremendous throughput  
for applications.
Through FY20, our reportable segments were GPU and 
Tegra Processor. Starting with the first quarter of FY21, 
our reportable segments have changed to “Graphics” 
and “Compute & Networking”. From our proprietary 
processors, we have created specialized platforms 
that address four large markets where our expertise is 
critical: gaming, professional visualization, data center, 
and automotive.
Our Graphics segment includes GeForce GPUs for 
gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming 
service and related infrastructure, and solutions for 
gaming platforms; Quadro GPUs for enterprise design; 
GRID software for cloud-based visual and virtual 
computing; and automotive platforms for infotainment 
systems. Our Compute & Networking segment 
includes Data Center platforms and systems for AI, MIT Culture 500  
NVIDIA ranked No. 1 in Agility, Innovation, and Performance in MIT Management Review and Glassdoor’s Culture 500. 20NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
HPC, and accelerated computing; 
DRIVE for autonomous vehicles; 
and Jetson for robotics and other 
embedded platforms.
We continuously assess whether 
and where to seek formal protection 
for particular innovations and 
technologies, based on such  
factors as:
 >The location in which our products 
are manufactured;
 >Our strategic technology or product 
directions in different countries; 
 >The degree to which intellectual 
property laws exist and are 
meaningfully enforced in various 
jurisdictions; and
 >The commercial significance of  
our operations and our competitors’  
operations in particular countries 
and regions.PRIORITY: 
BUSINESS 
MODEL AND 
COMPETITIVE-
NESS
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Market and global competitiveness,  
including NVIDIA’s business model,  
market leadership, and financial 
success; issues that impact NVIDIA’s  
fair access to the market, including:  
anti-competitive practices and 
global unrest
Our success depends on our ability  
to identify emerging industry changes  
and to develop new (or enhance our 
existing) products, services, and 
technologies that meet the evolving 
needs of these markets. Such 
activities may require considerable 
technical, financial, compliance, 
sales and marketing investments. 
We devote significant resources to 
the development of technologies and 
business offerings in markets where 
we have a limited operating history, 
such as the automotive and data 
center markets, which presents 
additional risks to our business. We 
must also continue to develop the 
infrastructure needed to scale our 
business in these areas, including 
customer service and support. We also must meet customer  
safety and compliance standards, 
which are subject to change. 
Additionally, we continue to make 
considerable investments in 
research and development, which 
may not produce significant revenue 
for several years, if at all. If our 
investments are unsuccessful and 
we fail to develop new products, 
services and technologies, or if 
we focus on technologies that 
do not become widely adopted, 
our business, revenue, financial 
condition and results of operations 
could be adversely affected. 
We cannot assure that our strategic  
direction will result in innovative 
products and technologies that 
provide value to our customers, 
partners and, ultimately, our 
shareholders. If we fail to anticipate 
the changing needs of our target 
markets and emerging technology 
trends, or if we do not appropriately 
adapt that strategy as market 
conditions evolve, in a timely  
manner to exploit potential market 
opportunities, our business will  
be harmed.
Our response to market 
competitiveness is outlined in the 
Business Strategies section of our 
FY20 10-K, pp. 7-12 .Most Admired Companies  
NVIDIA ranked first in the semiconductor 
category on Fortune  magazine’s list of the 
Most Admired Companies .21NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
PRIORITY:
CYBERSECURITY
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Technologies, processes, and 
practices designed to protect 
networks, computers, programs, 
and data from attack, damage,  
or unauthorized access;  
product safeguards
We define cybersecurity as measures  
designed to protect our IT assets 
from unauthorized access or attack. 
Included are NVIDIA’s products and 
the privacy of our customers’ and 
employees’ data. As we become  
aware of more frequent high-profile  
security breaches in business and  
government, and as new dangers 
arise, we remain committed to  
respecting privacy and implementing  
appropriate protections for any 
personal information we collect or 
that our users share with us. 
Our efforts are managed by a global  
team of cybersecurity, IT, engineering,  
and legal experts. A cybersecurity 
committee, which meets monthly 
and is driven by executive-level  leaders, reviews metrics and 
evaluates emerging threats. We also  
address cybersecurity scenarios in 
our resilience planning, document 
them through business continuity 
plans, and follow the processes 
outlined in frameworks such as the  
ISO 27000 for Information Security 
Standards. Against the backdrop of  
frequent changes and new knowledge,  
we continually evaluate and adapt 
our security measures. 
We have defined a set of actions  
for teams to initiate, which will 
help us to determine the type and 
rigorousness of our response in  
the event of a cybersecurity issue.  
The team also leverages external 
parties, such as computer security  
firms and those with risk management  
and governance expertise. NVIDIA’s 
Board of Directors receives regular 
presentations on cybersecurity.
We continuously hone our 
cybersecurity and data privacy 
training to respond to new 
requirements in global privacy laws.In FY20,  
we reviewed 
all strategic 
suppliers for 
cybersecurity 
and intellectual 
property 
alignment 
to NVIDIA 
standards.22NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
PRIORITY: 
TRADE ISSUES
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Ability to move and sell goods 
internationally, including export 
controls, import duties, quotas, 
and other trade barriers and 
restrictions; regulatory, pricing, 
and supply chain impacts 
associated with changing political 
and trade environment; global 
recruitment activities and hiring 
for specific skillsets
Our semiconductor wafers are 
produced and packaged by third 
parties located outside of the United 
States. Revenue from sales outside 
of the United States accounted for   
92 percent of total revenue for  
FY20, and 87 percent for each of 
fiscal years 2019 and 2018. And as 
of January 26, 2020, approximately 
46 percent of our employees were 
located outside of the United States. 
The global nature of our business 
subjects us to a number of risks 
and uncertainties, which could have 
a material adverse effect on our 
business, financial condition, and 
results of operations, including:   >International economic and 
political conditions, including as 
a result of the United Kingdom’s 
decision to withdraw from the 
European Union, and other political  
tensions between countries in 
which we do business;
 >Unexpected changes in, or 
impositions of, legislative or 
regulatory requirements, including  
changes in tax laws;
 >Differing legal standards with  
respect to protection of intellectual  
property and employment practices; 
 >Local business and cultural 
factors that differ from our normal  
standards and practices, including  
business practices that we are 
prohibited from engaging in by 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
and other anti-corruption laws 
and regulations;
 >Exporting or importing issues 
related to export or import 
restrictions, including deemed 
export restrictions, tariffs, 
quotas, and other trade barriers 
and restrictions;
 >Disruptions of capital and 
trading markets and currency 
fluctuations; and 
 >Increased costs due to imposition 
of climate change regulations, 
such as carbon taxes, fuel or 
energy taxes, and pollution limits. If our sales outside of the United 
States are delayed or canceled 
because of any of the stated factors, 
our revenue may decrease.
The global economy is constantly 
changing, and we are prepared to 
change with it. To that end, we use 
foreign currency forward contracts 
to mitigate the impact of foreign 
currency exchange rate movements 
on our operating expenses. And  
we continuously evaluate the 
location of our manufacturing and 
sourcing suppliers.
For an overview of risks related  
to global recruitment, see our  
FY20 10-K, p. 16 .23NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
BUSINESS 
CONTINUITY 
MANAGEMENT
WHAT IT COVERS:  
NVIDIA’s ability to operate without  
interruption; robustness of business  
continuity systems, infrastructure, 
policies, and procedures
Business continuity management 
(BCM) focuses on protecting our 
core values . Our philosophy of BCM  
is to identify realistic threats and 
their potential impact to our core 
values and to design a formal 
framework for responding. We believe  
that resilience can be achieved by  
embedding redundancy and diversity 
into our response framework. A BCM  
steering committee of four executives  
is supported by several business  
leaders across the following functions:  
Corporate Communications, 
Cybersecurity, Facilities, Finance, 
Global Security, Human Resources, 
Information Technology, and Operations. Each function has a plan  
to identify and address potential risks. 
These efforts are supported by robust  
infrastructure, systems, policies, 
and procedures and are designed to 
mitigate risk and protect the safety 
and trust of our employees and 
customers when unexpected events 
such as cyberattack, business 
disruption, or natural disaster occur. 
We believe that BCM is critical to  
minimizing financial and reputational  
impacts. By anticipating the 
likelihood of severe events, we can 
mitigate these risks and ensure 
that the company does not endure 
unnecessary damages.NVIDIA BCM PROGRAM
CORE
VALUESSTEERING
COMMITTEE
BCM TEAMIDENTIFY
RESPOND
RECOVER24NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
CUSTOMER 
RELATIONS
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Customer satisfaction; customer 
relationship management, 
including privacy
We view our commitment to positive 
customer relations in terms of the  
role we play as a responsible supplier  
to original equipment manufacturers,  
our reseller partners, and our 
customers, which includes both 
businesses and consumers. 
We support customers through a  
comprehensive  support site  and  
several NVIDIA-hosted product   
forums  and  communities . Our 
customer service team tracks 
interactions with consumers as 
they occur and shares bi-weekly 
satisfaction reports internally. We 
measure customer satisfaction in 
several ways and use these metrics 
to help promote experiences that  
delight our customers. Measurements  
include customer satisfaction rate, 
percentage of support incidents filed,  
closed incident survey response 
rate, and referral rate. 
Our customer support organization  
is on the front line of communications  
with our national and international 
partners, working with their 
engineering teams as they test 
NVIDIA products in their systems 
and devices. For partners that embed  
our hardware in their products,  
quality is monitored through ISO 
9000 certification . 
Our support organization has taken  
steps to dramatically reduce the 
time it takes for our software team  
to incorporate customer feedback, 
enabling technicians to respond 
quickly and increase customer 
satisfaction. We also use data gathered from our customer forums  
to give our research and development  
organizations a steady stream of 
feedback about what is working and 
what improvements our customers 
want. NVIDIA protects customer data  
and honors their choices in compliance  
with GDPR. More information can be  
found here  about our privacy policy.
We robustly support developers 
who want to create innovative 
applications with our products. We 
give developers diverse resources, 
including courses in parallel 
programming; enhancement tools 
for debugging, performance, and  
testing; access to highly skilled 
engineers and specialists who provide  
custom services and co-design 
industry-specific applications; 
and financial support to university 
researchers in various scientific 
disciplines. Our GPU Technology 
Conference  advances global 
awareness of accelerated computing,  
computer graphics, high-performance  
computing, AI, and deep learning. Our customers include some of  
the world’s largest electronics, 
consumer brand, and automotive 
companies. Consequently, we have 
integrated throughout our global 
operations the standards outlined in 
the Responsible Business Alliance 
(RBA) Code of Conduct covering 
labor, environment, health and 
safety, ethics, and management 
systems. We use these standards 
as our management approach for 
our supply chain. 
Inquiries from our original equipment  
manufacturer customers have 
increased in line with our focus 
on supplier responsibility and 
environmental sustainability. 
Requests for information have  
predominantly related to conflict  
minerals, environmental compliance,  
quality, cybersecurity, consumer 
satisfaction, and ethics.GPU TECHNOLOGY CONFERENCE   
GTC is a global conference series providing training, insights, and direct access to experts on the  
hottest topics in computing today. Thousands of researchers and professionals attend to learn the 
latest on the most dynamic topics related to high-performance computing, AI, and deep learning. 25NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
To manage these inquiries and 
requests, we employ quarterly 
business reviews with key customers  
and partner with them on various 
initiatives through the RBA. Certain 
customers assign points on their 
scorecards to environmental, social, 
and governance performance. 
Customers who are RBA members 
monitor our performance through 
tools provided by that organization, 
such as self-assessment 
questionnaires, validated audit 
processes, and tracking tools for 
carbon, water, and waste.  
 
BRAND AND 
REPUTATION
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Semiconductor and technology 
industry perception and reputation 
and how that influences NVIDIA’s 
business activities; brand 
reputation and market positioning; 
integrity of brand and customer 
perception; CSR performance as 
an indicator of reputation
As outlined in our 10-K , several 
factors can impact our brand and 
reputation. Every day, we build a  
better business by acting with 
integrity in all we do. Through our 
CSR efforts and reporting, we’ve 
built trust and credibility with our  
stakeholders as we disclose the  
metrics they expect. We’re recognized  
as a great place to work by current 
and prospective employees, as a 
respected supplier to customers, 
and as a successful long-term 
investment by shareholders. This annual CSR report forms the  
foundation of our CSR communications  
and is used by all stakeholders to  
find the information they need. It  
is a resource for several ratings, 
rankings, and indexes we participate  
in each year. 
These third-party endorsements 
help boost our reputation and brand  
as a strong corporate citizen. Notable  
recognitions we have received 
include: the Dow Jones Sustainability  
Index, CDP, 100 Best Corporate 
Citizens, Human Rights Watch’s 
Corporate Equality Index, and the 
JUST100. The Stakeholders  section lists all 
of the ratings/rankings requests we 
received in FY20. We have seen a 
dramatic increase in the number of 
requests to participate in these lists 
in the last few years as CSR has  
become a central element of business  
strategies throughout the world.  AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
We track closely our inclusion in several prominent business publications for 
innovation and leadership, notably: 
 > Barron’s  
World’s Best CEOs 
 > Fast Company  
Most Innovative Companies
 > Fortune  
Future 50 Sustainability  
All Stars > Fortune  
100 Best Places to Work
 > Harvard Business Review   
Best Performing CEOs  
in the World        26NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
PUBLIC POLICY 
ENGAGEMENT
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Transparency of political 
contributions and lobbying 
efforts, including participation 
through industry organizations; 
engagement with policy makers
Public policy engagement enables 
us to affect government action 
and provide thought leadership 
to global governments on 
issues that directly affect our 
business. It is also a platform for 
educating policymakers through 
demonstrations of our technology, 
amplifying our work in targeted 
areas, and collaborating with 
various organizations on issues 
of shared interest. We focus 
our public policy activities in AI, 
specifically to promote investment 
in core AI research, support 
workforce development around AI, 
and provide educational resources 
to technology policy advisors. AI Research and 
Standards
In FY20, as part of a panel focused 
on the current state of AI standards 
through the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, we 
provided input  to NIST and other 
government officials. We also 
provided comments  to the RFI  
on the same topic. We participated 
in the development and advocacy 
of the Semiconductor Industry 
Association’s policy plan , which 
recommended substantial 
investment in the U.S. workforce 
and federal R&D programs. 
As part of GTC DC, we brought 
together a leading group of 
policymakers and analysts to 
discuss the U.S. national strategy 
on AI, with a specific focus on 
standards, investments, and potential  
regulatory actions.LEADING THINKERS IN AI CONVERGE ON DC   
Leading thinkers from the White House Office of Science and Technology, National Institute of Standards and Technology, NASA Langley Research 
Center, and more discussed the future of AI at GTC DC in 2019. Speakers included: Lynne E. Parker, assistant director for AI with OST; Suzette Kent, CIO 
of OMB; and Elham Tabassi, chief of staff in the IT Laboratory at NIST.27NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ECONOMIC
Workforce Development 
We serve as the co-chair of CompTIA’s  
workforce subcommittee, where we 
support their policy development 
around skills-based training, 
apprenticeships, and certifications. 
We connected our educational 
scholarships for AI training for 
Black and Latinx in AI with the 
Congressional Black Caucus 
and the Congressional Hispanic 
Caucus to provide guidance to their 
workforce development programs.
AI Education
We provide subject matter experts  
to brief Congressional policy advisors  
on AI technology, offering insights 
on AI research and development. 
Those advisors include staff at the  
House Science Committee, the House  
Energy and Commerce Committee, 
and the Senate Commerce Committee.  
We enhance our reach in public 
policy through participation in  
organizations such as the Consumer  
Technology Association, Entertainment  
Software Association, the Information  
Technology Industry Foundation, 
and the Semiconductor Industry 
Association, among others. In early April 2020, we joined the  
COVID-19 High-Performance 
Computing Consortium , a 
collaboration with the White House 
Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, the U.S. Department of  
Energy, several technology companies,  
and national labs. The effort will 
help researchers everywhere 
better understand COVID-19, its 
treatments, and potential cures.
We do not have a political action 
committee. In FY20, we did not 
perform lobbying activity or expend 
resources that required registration 
under the Lobbying Disclosure Act.ACCELERATING AI ADOPTION   
NVIDIA leaders use our popular blog to 
promote causes of company interest, such 
as the government’s adoption of AI. 28
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORTSOCIAL06
PRIORITY: 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
MANAGEMENT AND 
PRODUCT QUALITY 
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Policies and practices with regard to overall supply 
chain management and product quality, including 
auditing and ensuring that suppliers meet minimum 
standards or requirements; supply chain transparency 
and disclosure
We hold ourselves and our suppliers to the highest 
standards of behavior. We engage suppliers that share 
our values and closely manage our supply chain to deliver  
innovative products that satisfy our customers’ expectations  
in a socially and environmentally conscious manner. 
Supply Chain Management
We do not directly manufacture the semiconductor 
wafers or printed circuit boards used in our products, 
nor do we manufacture our branded devices. Instead, 
we partner with world-class suppliers for all phases of 
the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, 
assembly, testing, and packaging. We’ve been Responsible Business Alliance  (RBA) 
members since 2007 and were accepted in January 
2018 as Full member. From the beginning, we adopted 
the RBA Code of Conduct and integrated its elements 
into our processes, including auditing strategic 
suppliers and conducting internal assessments to  
confirm that we are addressing all aspects of responsible  
supply chain management. 
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) 
and Samsung manufacture our semiconductor wafers. 
Our two main contract manufacturers for company- or  
partner-branded devices are Foxconn and BYD. Foxconn,  
Samsung, and TSMC are RBA members. We also contract  
with manufacturers to build, test, and distribute our 
branded devices.We have been Responsible 
Business Alliance members 
since 2007. We have adopted the 
code of conduct and integrated 
its elements into our processes. 29
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
All of our suppliers are required to  
comply with NVIDIA’s code of 
conduct, our CSR Directive, and 
policies related to human rights. 
They are required to sign an 
“Agreement for Manufacturer 
Environmental Compliance,” which 
includes all relevant product 
regulatory compliance standards, 
social compliance standards, 
chemical management, and the 
RBA Code. We also encourage them 
to use the RBA Code as a platform 
to go above and beyond compliance. 
Our assessment process involves 
using the RBA online system to vet  
existing and potential new suppliers 
against product compliance industry  
standards, social and environmental  
criteria, conflict minerals, the RBA 
Code, and NVIDIA’s code of conduct.
For strategic suppliers, agreements 
are deployed and tracked through 
a quarterly business review (QBR) 
process to make certain they 
uphold our requirements. Strategic 
suppliers include critical suppliers 
who produce or handle NVIDIA 
production material, as well as suppliers for whom we closely 
manage quality requirements, 
such as those who design our 
branded products and those we are 
required to work with based on 
customer agreements. 
Business allocation decisions with 
strategic suppliers are influenced 
by QBR performance. Five of 100 
QBR points are allocated to CSR 
issues, and requirements vary 
by quarter. Each quarter, overall 
supplier assessment is reviewed by 
product category and performance 
is ranked.
Additionally, in FY20 we reviewed all 
strategic suppliers for cybersecurity 
and intellectual property alignment 
to NVIDIA standards.
Aside from the RBA, we also 
participate in organizations  
focused on issues relevant to 
supplier responsibility, such as  
the Public-Private Alliance for 
Responsible Minerals Trade 
and the Association Connecting 
Electronics Industries.Supply Chain and 
COVID-19
Our focus during the pandemic 
is to protect worker rights while 
promoting business continuity. 
As members of the RBA, we are 
following their process to better 
understand the impact of the virus 
outbreak in the supply chain. We’ve 
partnered with a customer to 
survey several select suppliers to 
understand the impact on worker’s 
hours and wages. As a result of the 
workplace disruption, we anticipate 
an increase in working hours this 
year. The RBA and NVIDIA allow 
for certain exemptions to working 
hours requirements in the case 
of emergency or other unusual 
situations and we have identified 
the virus outbreak and subsequent 
government shutdown of activities 
across the globe as such. Strategic 
suppliers have communicated 
any reporting or auditing delays, 
including VAP audits and ISO 
renewal audits. We are applying 
guidance in accordance with the RBA,  
while remaining in conformance 
with the RBA Code of Conduct.30
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Human Rights
We are committed to upholding the  
rights of workers throughout our  
supply chain and to treating everyone  
with dignity and respect. Freely 
chosen employment is an issue that 
many supply chains face. We rely 
on the RBA and the Responsible 
Labor Initiative (RLI) to identify, 
prioritize and remediate any risks 
and impacts in our supply chain. We 
comply with the key principles for 
worker protection outlined in the 
RBA code of conduct: 
 >No forced, bonded (including 
debt bondage) or indentured 
labor, involuntary or exploitative 
prison labor, slavery or 
trafficking of persons. 
 >No unreasonable restrictions on 
workers’ freedom of movement 
in the facility or unreasonable 
restrictions on entering or exiting 
company-provided facilities. 
 >Workers must be provided with a 
written employment agreement 
in their native language that 
contains a description of terms 
and conditions of employment. 
 >All work must be voluntary, and  
workers may leave work at any  
time or terminate their employment. 
 >Employers and agents may not  hold or otherwise destroy, conceal,  
confiscate, or deny access by 
employees to their identity or 
immigration documents.
 >Workers shall not be required to pay  
employers’ or agents’ recruitment 
fees or other related fees for their 
employment; any such fees shall 
be repaid to the worker. 
 >Child labor is not to be used in any 
stage of manufacturing.
The RBA code is in alignment with  
the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights and 
standards from the ILO Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and  
Rights at Work and the UN Universal  
Declaration of Human Rights. 
We also comply with the RBA’s 
guidance regarding stakeholder 
grievances related to our social 
and environmental performance. 
We use the RBA Self-Assessment 
Questionnaire and VAP Audit 
Program to validate that our 
suppliers have proper grievance 
mechanisms in place and that 
employees are trained in using 
these methods. We manage any 
corrective actions related to 
grievance mechanisms through 
the RBA-Online Corrective Action 
Plan process.In addition to supporting and aligning  
with the RBA code regarding freely  
chosen labor, we follow the legal 
requirements of the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and 
UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. We 
track issues through the RBA 
Validated Audit Process and work  
directly with suppliers to implement  
any corrective actions. When 
violations are discovered, we 
require suppliers to return hiring 
fees to workers. Policies related 
to working conditions (including 
slavery and trafficking) can be 
found on our website . 
Additionally, NVIDIA is a member 
of the Public Private Alliance (PPA)  
for Responsible Minerals Trade, 
and the Responsible Minerals 
Initiative. The PPA provides 
funding and coordination support 
to organizations working within the 
Democratic Republic of Congo  
and adjacent countries to develop 
verifiable conflict-free supply 
chains; align due diligence 
programs and practices; encourage 
responsible sourcing from the 
region; promote transparency; and 
bolster in-region civil society and 
governmental capacity.We are committed  
to upholding the 
rights of workers 
throughout our 
supply chain and  
to treating 
everyone with  
dignity and 
respect. 31
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Environmental 
Management
All strategic suppliers are certified 
to ISO 14001. We monitor the 
environmental footprint of our 
suppliers and work with them through  
the supplier management process 
on goal setting and activities they 
can undertake to reduce their 
environmental impact. We calculate 
carbon, water, and waste data 
for all silicon manufacturers and 
systems contract manufacturers 
to determine carbon emissions and 
water consumption per product and 
per financial outlay.
We participate in the CDP Supply 
Chain program and the RBA online 
environmental survey on carbon, 
water, and waste. The waste data 
that is collected through the RBA 
Environmental report includes 
metrics regarding non-hazardous 
waste, hazardous waste, and 
recycling and disposal rates. We also 
participate in the RBA environmental 
sustainability workgroup. 
See Materials Availability   
for information.SUPPLIER  
COMPLIANCE
NVIDIA manufacturing 
suppliers comply with the 
following: 
 >NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct
 >NVIDIA’s Conflict Minerals 
Policy
 >EU RoHS
 >EU REACH 
 >EU End of Life Vehicles 
 >Halogen Free/Low Halogen
 >ISO 14001:2015 
 >ISO 45001 (replacing 
OHSAS 18001 /GB/T  
28001-2011 in China)32
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
FY20 RBA Member Compliance
COMPLIANCE ELEMENT RBA REQUIREMENT NVIDIA PERFORMANCE
Risk assessment on all suppliers 100% 100%
Self-assessment questionnaires (SAQs) All suppliers in top 80% of NVIDIA 
spending100%
NVIDIA’s SAQ review determined that 
there were no suppliers rated as high  
risk in our top spend.
Validated audit process (VAP) 25% of high risk suppliers We had no high risk suppliers identified in 
SAQ, but we require VAP audits to validate 
SAQs even if the SAQ score comes back 
as moderate or low risk.
This process revealed one strategic supplier  
as high risk. We work with high and 
moderate risk suppliers to review their 
CAPs and complete a Closure Audit when 
necessary.
We reviewed all VAP audits completed by 
suppliers in FY20, which accounts for 45 
percent of our strategic suppliers. In the 
last two years, we have reviewed all valid 
VAP audits which account for 75 percent 
of our strategic suppliers. 
We reviewed an additional 10 VAP audits 
from high-spend suppliers (spend > $1 
million) in FY20. 
Corrective action plans (CAPs) N/A (due to lack of high risk 
suppliers from SAQ)We engaged 11 strategic suppliers on their  
CAPs from the FY19-20 auditing season,  
regardless of risk rating. Common findings  
include issues related to occupational 
safety, emergency preparedness, working  
hours, and freely chosen employment.
We continue monitoring to ensure that  
suppliers demonstrate effective processes  
to ensure compliance. Specific actions on 
non-compliance issues vary depending 
on the type of finding and supplier.33
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
FY20 Performance with the RBA Code of Conduct
RBA CODE 
ELEMENTNVIDIA AS SUPPLIER NVIDIA AS CUSTOMER
Labor We updated NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct to 
strengthen human rights language.
Relevant NVIDIA employees took several 
RBA Learning Academy courses.
We participate in the RBA’s Responsible 
Labor Initiative.
We are in alignment with the UN Guiding  
Principles on Business and Human Rights, 
the ILO Declaration on Fundamental  
Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.We evaluated all contract manufacturers and direct material  
suppliers on geographic location, manufacturing 
processes, past SER performance, and public reports.
We tracked supplier working hours through VAP, CAPs,  
or RBA working-hours templates.
We worked with suppliers to ensure their compliance with  
the principles of zero hiring fees and freely chosen employment.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight suppliers: 
Hours of Work, Working Hours Recording System, Working  
Hours Management System, The Hiring Process, Recruitment  
and Selection, Hiring and Working with Migrant Workers, 
Wages and Benefits, Creating Motivating Wage Systems, 
and Improving Your Dormitories.
Health and Safety We conducted an annual tour of all NVIDIA 
offices to audit health and safety.
We updated NVIDIA’s Environmental, 
Health, Safety and Energy Policy.We closed CAPs covering all health and safety issues.
We reviewed improvement plans on health and safety as 
part of OHSAS 18001 for alignment with eight suppliers.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight  
suppliers: Effective H&S Systems, Fire Safety, and 
Managing Air Emissions.
Ethics We continued membership in RMI  
and participated in its work groups on 
due-diligence data collection and  
smelter engagement.We engaged 100 percent of suppliers to collect smelter 
data for our conflict minerals program.
We engaged strategic suppliers to collect cobalt  
smelter data.
We continued evaluation of smelter metrics for the annual 
SEC conflict minerals reporting requirement.
We deactivated suppliers that were non-compliant with 
product and conflict mineral requirements.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight  
suppliers: Supply Chain Ethics, Recognizing Forced Labor, 
and Preventing Forced Labor.
Environmental We participated in CDP Supplier 
Engagement.
We completed the RBA online 
environmental survey on carbon,  
water, and waste. 
We participate in the RBA environmental 
sustainability work group. We calculated carbon, water, and waste data of all silicon 
manufacturers and systems contract manufacturers to 
determine carbon emissions and water consumption per 
product and per financial outlay.
We required compliance with environmental standards.
We reviewed suppliers’ environmental improvement plans 
for ISO 14001 alignment.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight suppliers: 
Environmental Protection, Managing Energy and GHG 
Emissions, Water and Wastewater Management, Resolving 
Wastewater Treatment Issues, and Managing Waste.34
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Management 
SystemsWe participated in a VAP work group.
We continue to evaluate our performance 
for the RBA Full membership tier. We conducted quarterly business reviews of suppliers.
We assessed compliance with the updated RBA Code with 
respect to labor fees and freedom of association.
We implemented a performance-based award system for 
strategic suppliers.
We assigned Learning Academy courses to eight suppliers: 
Understanding Supply Chain Responsibility, Industry 
Standards, Responsible Supply Chain Management (for 
Factory Management), Supply Chain CSR Monitoring, and 
Using KPIs.
 
Product Quality  
We use a comprehensive quality 
management process with the 
goal of exceeding our customers’ 
expectations. Cross-functional 
teams manage all aspects of product  
quality. Customer Quality Engineering  
provides direct customer support 
for all quality-related issues 
and facilitates the gathering of customer failure information, 
customer-observed failure rates, 
and RMA processing. Product 
Quality Engineering uses the Eight 
Discipline (8D) methodology to 
direct root cause failure analysis 
and corrective actions. As part of the  
continuous improvement process,  
recommended design enhancements  are brought to the design engineering  
teams for incorporation into  
next-generation products.
NVIDIA is ISO 9001 certified  and  
has been issued a “letter of 
conformance” to the IATF 16949 
automotive quality standard.FY20 Performance with the RBA Code of Conduct (Cont.)
RBA CODE 
ELEMENTNVIDIA AS SUPPLIER NVIDIA AS CUSTOMER35NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
PRIORITY: 
EMPLOYEE 
HEALTH AND 
SAFETY
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Occupational health and safety 
performance and policies; safety 
standards (ISO 45001, OSHA); 
health and wellness programs; 
security practices
Our employees’ ability to perform 
their jobs well depends on their 
physical and mental health and their 
safety and security. Our integrated 
programs actively support these 
fundamental needs. 
Health, Safety, and 
COVID-19
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic,  
we closed our nearly 60 offices 
around the world by March 2020. 
We support our employees in making  
their health and their families’ health  
a top priority, and we provide them 
with resources to work remotely 
whenever needed. For essential labs  
and offices that remain open, we have  
instituted frequent disinfection, 
temperature taking, and strong 
social distancing guidelines. 
Health and Wellness 
We offer programs throughout 
the year to assist with employees’ 
personal wellness, including health 
analysis, skin cancer screening, and 
hereditary cancer screening. Our 
record reflects the results of our 
dedication to employee health and 
wellness. Less than one percent of 
leave-of-absence requests within 
NVIDIA relate to work. Work-related injury losses are significantly below 
the averages for our industry. Our 
recordable incident rate per 100 
full-time employees, is .25, and 
our lost-time incident rate is .01. 
Few workers compensation claims 
are submitted, and the majority 
of those  processed are repetitive 
motion injuries. In recognition 
of this fact, we have taken steps 
to work with affected employees 
through our ergonomics program 
and online courses.
Safety
Our Environmental Health and 
Safety (EHS) team oversees 
workplace conditions for NVIDIANs 
globally. Team members provide 
guidance to ensure that facilities 
meet or exceed local safety 
requirements, promote safe work 
practices, and support compliance 
with applicable health and safety 
legislation and policies through 
trainings, communications, and 
audits. Our global EHS management 
framework is broadly aligned with 
ISO 45001 and includes: >A network of site safety 
officers who provide local EHS 
accountability. 
 >Documented, globally applicable 
programs on key topics, including 
contractor management, ladder 
safety, ergonomics, vehicle safety, 
and chemical management.
 >External EHS audits and internal 
EHS inspections of our owned and 
leased offices. 
Keeping our employees safe 
requires planning for emergencies. 
Our volunteer emergency response 
teams include more than 500 
employees around the world. These 
volunteers assist with evacuation 
drills and may receive training in 
basic first aid, CPR, AED, or fire 
extinguisher use in addition to 
emergency preparedness that will 
enable them to rapidly respond in 
an emergency or disaster.36NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
100 BEST COMPANIES 
TO WORK FOR 
Fortune has recognized 
NVIDIA in its list of  100 Best 
Companies to Work For. 
We ranked No. 1 in Agility,  
Innovation, and Performance  
in MIT Management and 
Glassdoor’s Culture 500, 
and scored 100 percent 
on Human Rights Watch’s 
Corporate Equality Index. 
Glassdoor also includes us 
on its Employee’s Choice: 
Best Places to Work list.A TOP PLACE FOR TALENT
For the fifth year, NVIDIA is on Fortune magazine’s 100 Best Places to Work. We also ranked No. 6 
on its list of Best Workplace in Technology. 
PRIORITY: 
TALENT 
STRATEGY
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Global talent identification and  
selection, including global 
recruitment activities and hiring  
for specific skillsets; leadership 
development, including professional  
development and training to build 
and maintain an internal pipeline 
of leadership
We believe that talented employees 
are our greatest assets, and they play  
a key role in creating long-term value  
for our stakeholders. Our ultimate 
success and our ability to compete 
are substantially dependent on how 
well we identify, hire, train, and 
retain highly qualified personnel. In  
the technology industry’s highly 
competitive talent market, we aim  
to differentiate ourselves through  
a workplace culture that celebrates  
drive, commitment, and achievement. 
We position our company to attract the industry’s most creative and 
gifted individuals, and they take pride  
in our dynamic workplace. Our teams  
of world-class engineers and  
developers thrive in high-performance  
environments where passion is 
expected, talent is recognized, and 
collaboration is valued. 
Fortune  has recognized NVIDIA in 
its list of 100 Best Companies to 
Work For. We ranked No. 1 in Agility, 
Innovation, and Performance in 
MIT Management and Glassdoor’s 
Culture 500, and scored 100 
percent on Human Rights Watch’s 
Corporate Equality Index. Glassdoor 
also includes us on its Employee’s 
Choice: Best Places to Work list.37NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Talent Strategy and 
COVID-19
To protect employees amidst the 
COVID-19 pandemic, we closed 
offices around the world by mid-
March, asked our employees to  
make their health and their families’  
health their top priority. We continued  
to pay all regular and temporary 
employees and contractors. We 
also began providing resources to 
staffers to work remotely as we 
joined global efforts to slow the 
spread of the virus. 
NVIDIA employees are supported in 
the event of illness due to COVID-19. 
Where legally permissible, we provide  
enhanced coronavirus health 
coverage in an effort to remove all 
barriers to diagnosis and treatment.
Additionally, our HR, IT, and charitable  
teams assembled several resources  
for employees:
 >A comprehensive website with 
information on work guidelines, 
IT help, benefits, and how to  
engage in the company’s 
charitable mission to support 
local charities, neighbors, and 
small businesses.
 >A collection of resources and 
weekly webinars for employees and managers adjusting to 
working and leading remotely. 
 >Third-party learning resources 
on how to work from home and 
how to manage remotely.
 >A mental health webinar series 
on dealing with life challenges 
during a pandemic.
 >Educational resources for 
employees’ children.
Recruiting
As we enter new markets in AI and  
deep learning, the demand for 
talent is increasingly competitive. 
We continually evaluate the right mix  
of compensation and benefits, so we 
can continue to attract the best and  
the brightest. To attract and retain 
highly qualified individuals, we:  
 >Attend professional and university 
recruiting events. 
 >Perform semi-annual compensation  
analysis and adjustments.
 >Evaluate benefits annually. 
 >Analyze global employee 
engagement survey data. 
 >Engage in “best place to work” 
surveys that provide feedback on 
our strengths and weaknesses.Compensation and 
Benefits 
We have four key objectives in our 
compensation strategy: attract and  
retain the world’s best talent, reward  
performance, focus on growth, and  
think in terms of total pay. Our total  
compensation packages are 
competitive, fair, and structured 
to encourage employees to invest 
in the company’s future. Our 
employees enjoy a comprehensive, 
market-competitive benefits 
package and have the opportunity 
to own shares in the company 
through our employee stock 
purchase plan (ESPP). We invest  
in and commit to our employees’ 
long-term success. NVIDIA’s 
benefits  include flexible work hours  
and flexible time off, programs to 
help employees address stress and  
time-management challenges, and  
an array of convenient onsite services.  
We support employees in their 
important life events through our  
global Guidance Resources Program  
and a generous leave program.38NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Learning and 
Development
Through our learning and development  
program, employees receive 
training on the job and in more 
formal settings across the gamut of 
professional, functional, technical, 
and managerial learning. 
We use both internally and externally  
created online training content,  
and our employees can access 
hundreds of technical and professional  
development courses via our 
NVLearn portal. LinkedIn Learning, 
GlobeSmart, Udemy for Business, 
and Pluralsight courses are 
available online for employees, as 
are the digital libraries of the Institute  
of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers and the Association for 
Computing Machinery through our 
corporate memberships. 
In addition to online content, NVIDIA 
provides employees with a variety 
of live learning experiences that 
take the form of classes, panel and 
speaker-based forums, and formal 
internal technical conferences.  We offer tuition reimbursement 
at most accredited educational 
institutions—including through 
Coursera and EdX—and subsidize 
certain advanced technical education  
programs at the Stanford Center 
for Professional Development. We  
also encourage employees to take  
classes through NVIDIA’s Deep 
Learning Institute , which offers 
courses live and online for developers  
who want to learn the technical 
aspects of AI (including select 
Udacity courses).
We deliver a range of vocational 
support through our career 
services program. The program 
includes periodic internal career 
expos, lunch and learns featuring 
development-related topics, and  
individual on-demand career coaching. 
We support compliance trainings 
required by the various localities 
we operate in and programs unique 
to our business, including ISO 9001 
compliance, autonomous vehicle 
driver certification, cloud security 
training, and GDPR awareness.Additional information about how  
we recruit, acquire, develop, and  
retain employees is covered under  
the issues of Diversity and Inclusion   
and Employee Engagement .39NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
PRIORITY:  
DIVERSITY AND 
INCLUSION
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Policies, practices, and initiatives 
related to employee, supplier,  
and board diversity and inclusion; 
gender and racial equity in the 
technology industry; pay equity
We believe that diverse teams fuel 
innovation, and we are committed 
to creating an inclusive culture that 
supports all employees, regardless 
of gender, gender identity or 
expression, veteran status, race, 
ethnicity, or ability. 
We integrate diversity and inclusion 
into the entire employee experience 
and drive programs in three core 
areas: recruiting and hiring, 
development and recognition, and 
employee support. Additionally, we 
are committed to pay transparency 
and making all employment decisions  
on the principles of equal 
employment opportunity. 
To The Black Community
The heartbreaking events in 
America during the end of May and 
into June require that we confront 
painful racial inequities and 
prejudice that exist to this day.
NVIDIA stands with the Black 
community and will act to help. 
Though we can’t fully appreciate 
the pain, despair, and frustration 
that many are feeling, we will 
listen to and learn from our Black 
colleagues.
Our CEO’s comments from NVIDIA’s 
annual shareholder meeting: 
“Corporations must also stand 
against racism and act.  NVIDIA 
must act.  It is not enough to just 
be an inclusive employer, and 
with good intentions, and provide equal opportunities to Black 
people.  We must purposefully and 
systematically create opportunities.  
Starting with me, we will elevate 
the urgency of increasing Black 
population at every level of our 
company and do our part to fight 
racism.”
While our Diversity programs are 
focused on increasing engagement 
with all underrepresented groups, 
our efforts will be particularly 
focused on strengthening 
relationships with Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities 
and professional organizations that 
support the Black community.
Recruiting and Hiring
We prioritize the recruitment of 
women and underrepresented 
minorities, and we reached 19,000 
diverse candidates in FY20. Our 
strategies include:
 >Evaluating the recruiting pipeline 
to identify any bottlenecks for 
women and minorities during the 
recruiting process.   >Dedicating employees to sourcing,  
elevating, and shepherding 
minority candidates for professional  
and university roles.
 >Crafting job descriptions to 
eliminate unintended bias using 
an AI-based third-party tool.
 >Striving for female interviewees 
in technical positions to meet  
with at least one woman during 
the interview process.
 >Make available during interview 
scheduling to each hiring manager  
and interviewer a copy of the guide  
for unbiased recruiting and hiring.
 >Developing women and minority 
recruiting teams for academic 
and professional job fairs.
 >Partnering with historically Black 
colleges and Hispanic-serving 
institutions. 
 >Partnering with our employee 
resource groups to evolve how 
we reach and attract minority 
candidates.  
 
 
 
 
 WE BELIEVE IN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
We don’t tolerate discrimination or 
harassment against anyone on the basis 
of race, color, religion, sex, marital or 
protected veteran status, age, national 
origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability,  
genetic information, medical condition, 
sexual orientation, gender, gender identity,  
gender expression, or any other characteristic  
protected by law. 40NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
HOW WE TRACK OUR PROGRESS
The metrics we use to track our diversity and inclusion progress include:
HIRING
 >We set internal goals to increase our hiring of women and minorities.
 >We strive to ensure that our recruiting, screening, and interview 
pipeline reflects the industry’s minority representation.  
RETENTION
 >We review and analyze compensation and performance twice yearly.
 >We track employee-survey metrics, focusing on how women and 
minorities view our work environment.  
PROMOTIONS AND TURNOVER
 >We monitor the number of promotions and turnover within minority 
groups against the total. >Conducting outreach, recruiting, 
and holding events on university 
campuses in partnership with 
the Society of Women Engineers, 
the National Society of Black 
Engineers, the Society of Hispanic 
Professional Engineers, and 
veteran and LGBTQ organizations.
 >Recruiting at professional events, 
including Tech Up for Women, the 
Society of Women Engineers, Vets 
in Tech, and the National Society 
of Black Engineers.
 >Mentoring undergraduate women 
pursuing tech degrees through 
Rewriting the Code.
 >Providing scholarships for women 
through the Advancing Science in 
America Foundation.
 >Offering free passes to our 
developer conferences to 
technical women’s organizations, 
members of Black in AI and 
Latinx in AI, and universities.
Development and 
Recognition
To maximize our employees’ success  
and ensure continued diversity 
and inclusion, we recognize and 
celebrate their contributions and 
encourage lifelong learning. Our 
strategies include:
 >Encouraging internal mobility 
through career expos and 
counseling.
 >Strengthening development 
programs for women through 
mentoring, technical offerings, 
collaborative learning, and  
on-the-job training. 
 >Partnering mentors and mentees 
for coaching and support.
 >Sponsoring women to attend and 
present at technical conferences.
 >Submitting top-performing 
employees for recognition and 
awards. The YWCA Silicon Valley 
has recognized 29 NVIDIA leaders 
in the past eight years through its 
Tribute to Women awards.  >Featuring diverse employees  
on NVIDIA.com and our corporate 
intranet.  
 
 
 41NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Employee Support
Our ongoing efforts to support  
our employees personally and 
professionally help to create an 
environment where employees 
can do their best work. These 
efforts include:
 >Offering a generous parental 
leave program with flexible work 
hours upon return from leave. 
 >Providing full coverage for benefits  
such as in vitro fertilization, egg 
freezing, and adoption.  >Conducting training with 300+ 
leaders to build their awareness 
about unconscious bias in recruiting  
and hiring. 
 >Including unconscious bias 
awareness in compliance training 
for managers.
 >Supporting the establishment of  
and providing funding to employee 
resource groups that have 
executive-level sponsorship and 
dedicated budgets: Women in 
Technology, NV Pride (LGBTQ employees and allies), Black 
NVIDIAN Network, Early Career 
Network, Hispanic Latino Network,  
and NVIDIA Veterans. Our CEO 
meets with the co-chairs of these  
groups periodically to understand 
their experience and drive programs  
and benefits that support these 
communities.
 >Women in Technology programs 
at our headquarters in addition to 
two other locations in the U.S. and 
three locations in India.
NVIDIA’ s Parental Leave Plan
BIRTH MOTHER BENIFITS POLICY
FATHERS, ADOPTIVE PARENTS, FOSTER PARENTS BENEFITS POLICYWEEKS
NEW POLICY
OLD POLICYBABY BONDING LEAVE
6 WEEKS
REDUCED PAYUNPAID6 WEEKS 100% PAY,
4 WEEKS REDUCED PAYCHILD’S BIRTH
FLEX TIME
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
100% OF PAYPREGNANCY LEAVE
WEEKS
NEW POLICY
OLD POLICY6 WEEKS 100% PAY,
1 WEEK REDUCED PAY1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20BABY BONDING LEAVE FLEX TIME
100% OF PAY
UNPAID
Equitable Pay
We are committed to providing a fair 
and living wage to all employees. To 
ensure pay parity, each year since 
2015 we have used a third-party firm,  
Economist, Inc., to analyze our pay 
practices for gender and ethnicity 
across 75+ dimensions, including 
rating, education, years of experience,  
job function, family, and job level. The firm has not found any statistically  
significant disparities related to 
female or underrepresented minority  
compensation. If we were to identify 
an issue of pay disparity, our human 
resources organization would take 
corrective action. We’ve achieved pay  
parity for the past several years and 
plan to continue doing so in FY21.  See the Diversity Performance  
section for several metrics we use 
to track our progress, and FY21 
goals in the Performance  section. 42NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Expanding the AI Ecosystem
At GTC in Washington, D.C., we hosted deep learning training events for women and minorities and 
held discussions on how workplaces can become more inclusive and how researchers can improve 
their AI technology to avoid bias. Building the STEM 
Pipeline
Improving the representation of 
women and minorities in tech 
requires a long-term perspective, 
so we implement a number of 
programs that provide young 
women and other unrepresented 
groups access to STEM education. 
In FY20, we engaged close to 4,300 
youth through activities designed 
to help them excel in basic math 
skills, be inspired through tours of 
our technology center and career 
roundtables with NVIDIA engineers, 
and get access to innovative AI 
technology through hands-on 
activities. Partner organizations 
include: Breakthrough Silicon Valley,  
City Year, Girls Who Code, and 
Silicon Valley Education Foundation. 
We also supported longtime 
nonprofit partner Technovation in 
the expansion of its Technovation 
Families program , which introduces  
underserved students and families 
to AI. This included helping to launch  
the program in three new locations 
—Silicon Valley, Austin, and Durham  
—and providing funding to grow its  
mentoring program, where employees  
from companies like NVIDIA work 
directly with participating families.
And, more broadly, we supported  
a new effort to bring AI curriculum 
to high school classrooms   
across the U.S. as part of Exploring 
Computer Science. This year-long,   
research-based, high school 
introductory-level computer science   
curriculum and professional 
development program for teachers 
focuses on broadening participation 
in computing.Ecosystem Inclusivity 
and Diversity 
Each year, we hold our developer 
forum, the GPU Technology 
Conference, in a series of events 
worldwide. GTC is an opportunity 
to extend our inclusion efforts  to 
our external ecosystem. 
At our 2019 Silicon Valley conference,  
we increased female attendance by 
more than 50 percent and almost 
doubled the number of talks that 
included a woman speaker. And for 
the sixth year in a row, GTC included 
events  specifically for women. 
At our Washington, D.C., conference, 
we repeated our popular Women’s 
Early Career Accelerator  for 50 
women starting out in AI to give 
them access to our deep learning 
courses that provide hands-on 
training and opportunities to network.  
We also reconnected with partners 
Black in AI, Latinx in AI, and with 
Historically Black Colleges to 
welcome several new members 
of those communities to the AI 
ecosystem. In 2019, Forbes  called out  
GTC as a top conference for women 
wanting to learn more about AI. Other activities to increase the number  
of women and minority technologists  
attending GTC included: 
 >Scholarships for members of 
Black in AI and Latinx in AI.
 >Free conference and training 
passes to local universities and  
women-in-technology organizations.
 >Outreach to women in our 
university and developer network 
to encourage them to speak, 
which helped to increase female 
speakers in 2019 by 40 percent. 
 >Highlighting women speakers 
on the main GTC website and 
prominently featuring them in 
promotional materials.
We have also recruited at the Grace 
Hopper Conference and sponsored  
four diversity workshops at NeurIPS.43NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
EMPLOYER OF CHOICE
FORTUNE FAST  
COMPANYCORPORATE EQUALITY  
INDEX
100 Best Companies to Work For Most Innovative Company Best Place for LGBTQ Employees
EMPLOYEE 
ENGAGEMENT
WHAT IT COVERS:   
Policies and practices to engage 
employees and create a great 
workplace as measured through 
employee surveys; implementation 
of relevant survey feedbackFor 26 years, we have pushed the 
boundaries of what is possible in 
the world of parallel computing, and 
we have succeeded because we are 
focused and passionate about what 
we do. To ensure our continued 
success, we maintain a working 
environment where our employees 
are engaged and inspired. Our corporate culture arises from 
five core values, which provide 
the foundation for success. These 
values create a workplace where 
innovation thrives and mistakes are 
transformed into opportunities.44NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
NVIDIA’S CORE VALUES
INNOVATION INTELLECTUAL   HONESTY
Dream big, start small. Take risks, learn fast.
We make things that delight customers  and raise industry 
standards. We encourage employees to innovate, guided by 
first principles, not consensus.
We know our path to discovery will be paved with mistakes. 
We anticipate and avoid the ones we can. We accept, learn 
from, and share the ones that occur. This allows us to invent 
things the world doesn’t even know it needs, and by doing so, 
invent the future.Seek truth, learn from mistakes,  share learnings.
We operate at the highest ethical standards. We seek  to 
accurately know ourselves and our capabilities—acknowledging 
our weaknesses and learning from our mistakes.
The sharpest understanding of reality improves our work. 
Identifying the origins of mistakes is not about blame. It is 
essential to learning and constant improvement. We say what 
we believe, and have the courage to act on it.
SPEED AND AGILITY EXCELLENCE AND   DETERMINATION
Learn, adapt, shape the world.
We are alert and constantly learning, and adjust course to 
align to new realities. This lets us create groundbreaking 
products at astonishing speed. No politics, no hierarchy stands 
in the way of inventing the future.Maintain the highest standards.
We hire extraordinarily talented individuals across the globe,  
people determined to make a difference. We challenge 
ourselves to do our best work.
We measure ourselves not against the competition, but 
against perfection—we call it the speed-of-light test. We are 
not deterred by lengthy endeavors if they are worthy.   We are 
playing a long game.
ONE TEAM
Do what’s best for the company. 
We foster an environment of transparency, openness, and 
sharing information. One that motivates our employees, and 
empowers them to work as a single integrated team.
We disagree openly and directly because conflict is essential 
to resolving differences, improving ideas, and achieving 
alignment. Our focus is on substance, not on style. By putting 
the interests of the company before our own, we can more 
easily accomplish NVIDIA’s vision.45NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
Employee Feedback
To track employee engagement and 
retention trends, we have conducted 
a global employee survey every 18 
to 24 months. More than 90 percent 
of our workforce participates in 
these surveys. To pivot more quickly 
to address their concerns, in FY20 
we moved toward an always-on 
survey model. Data will continue to 
be analyzed at a fine level, enabling 
us to zero in on issues that may be  
specific to certain teams or job levels. 
Our survey asks for feedback across  
13 dimensions, including strength of 
culture, engagement, satisfaction, 
vision and direction, and work-life 
flexibility. The survey repeatedly 
tells us that our employees feel 
great pride in the company.We are committed to a strong 
workplace culture that provides 
effective grievance mechanisms 
for our employees. To report 
practices or actions believed to be 
inappropriate or illegal, employees 
have several channels through 
which to report, including our 
human resources departments, a 
suggestion box, and a third-party 
anonymous service.MEASURING  
EMPLOYEE  
FEEDBACK  
 
96% 
are proud to tell others they 
work at NVIDIA  
95% 
believe NVIDIA management 
is honest and ethical in its 
business practices  
94% 
said that when they joined 
NVIDIA they were made to  
feel welcome  
92% 
say that NVIDIA is a great place 
to work. 
Survey results from  
Great Place to Work for 
Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to 
Work For  U.S. 2020 rating46NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
PRODUCT 
SAFETY
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Safety of products, from 
production to use to end-of-life, 
including the safety of materials 
and components
Safety is a principle that permeates 
our engineering culture and is 
incorporated into every step of  
our product development process, 
from design and production to the 
end-user experience. We must meet 
customer safety and compliance 
standards. If our products are not 
in compliance, customers may not 
incorporate them into their design 
strategies. Our ability to secure 
appropriate safety certifications 
and meet industry safety standards 
could affect our results of operations  
in the future. We have established 
product safety technical committees  
to oversee safety throughout the 
product lifecycle. MATERIALS 
AVAILABILITY
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Availability of materials; materials 
content; security of natural 
resources; conflict minerals; 
management systems to track 
supplier progress related to conflict  
minerals; product availability 
(finished goods from major suppliers)
We support, contribute to, and rely  
on industry-wide efforts to validate 
the source of minerals used in our 
products, ensuring that they come  
from socially responsible sources 
and do not contribute to human conflict.  
Our goal is to use only conflict-free 
gold, tantalum, tungsten, and tin 
from the Democratic Republic of 
Congo in our products. 
We’re a member of the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative (RMI) and  
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible  
Minerals Trade. We support these 
on-the-ground programs aimed 
at improving transparency for 
responsible sourcing and reducing 
human rights risks, including forced 
labor. Our due diligence program regarding conflict materials is 
designed to conform in all material 
respects with the framework 
recommended by the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and 
Development (OECD). 
Review our policy  to understand our 
goals and the steps we take to monitor  
our supply chain for conflict minerals.  
Our policy is framed around the 
OECD Due Diligence Guidance 
for Responsible Supply Chains of 
Minerals from Conflict-Affected 
and High-Risk Areas. This guidance 
provides detailed recommendations 
to help companies respect human 
rights and avoid contributing to 
conflict through their mineral 
purchasing decisions and practices.
Additionally, we participate in 
various RMI work groups and align 
our program with the organization’s 
tracking of additional minerals, 
materials, and geographic areas 
of high concern. We monitor 
additional legal requirements, 
including the EU Conflict Minerals 
Regulations, to determine any future  
requirements for conflict materials 
and high-risk regions of the world. 
In 2019, as the RMI program matured,  
we began to investigate cobalt in our  
supply chain. By the end of 2019, we  
had surveyed our strategic suppliers  
for cobalt. We plan to expand our 
scope in 2020 to all suppliers. We 
have reported the initial results to 
customers, as requested.47NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
RESPONSIBLE  
AND ETHICAL AI
At this year’s GTC Digital 
conference, we invited experts 
to discuss AI ethics.
Kathy Baxter, architect of 
Ethical AI at Salesforce, spoke 
on our podcast about the 
theme “ Keeping an Eye on AI: 
Building Ethical Technology at 
Salesforce .”
Also see the video recording 
titled “ Eliminating Hidden 
Bias in Autonomy and Beyond ” 
by Deepti Mahajan from Ford 
Greenfield Labs.
SOCIETAL 
IMPACTS OF AI
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Development of technologies that 
contribute positively to society;  
supporting developers, researchers,  
and startups that are creating AI 
applications to consider broader 
societal implications, such as bias, 
workforce, and ethical concerns
AI represents the most profound 
technological shift in our era, 
touching virtually every industry, 
including robotics, cybersecurity, 
finance, healthcare, transportation, 
retail, and customer service. NVIDIA  
accelerates this revolution by 
creating advanced computing tools  
that serve as open platforms for  
developers, researchers, and data  
scientists to innovate in these areas. 
We educate tens of thousands of  
developers each year, partner with 
thousands of startups globally—
many of which are using AI to benefit  
society—and collaborate with 
dozens of universities and research 
organizations in performing 
groundbreaking AI research. Self-Driving Car Safety
As a solutions provider to the  
vast majority of startups, vehicle 
makers, suppliers, sensor makers, 
and mapping companies in the 
autonomous vehicle industry,  
we make safety our first priority. 
Experts architect safety into every 
aspect of our NVIDIA DRIVE   
computer system, which includes 
the foundational hardware and 
software for autonomous driving 
technologies. We develop tools and 
methods so technologies perform 
reliably. Stringent engineering 
processes ensure that no corners 
are cut. Our safety priorities  
and processes are outlined in a 
Self-Driving Safety Report  we 
released in FY19. 
To show our commitment to 
automotive safety, we are pursuing 
product compliance through ISO 
26262, an automotive-specific 
international standard that focuses 
on safety-critical components. In  
FY19, a top automotive safety and  
reliability company, TÜV SÜD, 
performed a safety concept 
assessment of our new NVIDIA 
Xavier system-on-a-chip. TÜV SÜD deemed the processor’s safety 
architecture  suitable for use in 
autonomous driving applications  
and in May 2020 determined  that 
the chip meets ISO 26262 standard 
random hardware integrity of ASIL 
C and a systematic capability of 
ASIL D for process—the strictest 
for functional safety. In early FY21, 
advisory firm Navigant Research 
released the 2020 Automated 
Vehicle Compute Platforms report, 
in which NVIDIA  led the list of 
companies developing AV platforms 
to power the AI that will replace the 
human driver.
AI for Healthcare
We are helping scientists, 
clinicians and care-givers use AI 
to tackle critical challenges like 
drug discovery, disease detection, 
and personalized healthcare.
Key to these efforts is our 
development of the NVIDIA Clara   
platform, which increases 
diagnostic accuracy, enabling the 
medical imaging community to 
improve patient outcomes and 
reduce the cost of care. Clara also 
addresses a fundamental problem: 48NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
updating legacy medical imaging 
instruments which typically have  
a lifespan of more than a decade 
but may not be able to run modern 
applications that benefit from the  
1,000x acceleration of GPU 
computing. By connecting to 
NVIDIA’s GPU-powered servers, 
these legacy instruments can 
leverage the latest and most 
advanced imaging applications. 
We are also working with global 
partners to address fundamental 
concerns surrounding AI in 
healthcare, such as patient data 
privacy. In 2019, King’s College 
London  worked with NVIDIA to 
launch the UK’s first AI platform 
for NHS hospitals. Security and 
data governance are safeguarded 
by applying an approach called 
federated learning, which allows 
participating centers to pool the 
results of their AI work without 
sharing their proprietary data. The 
collaboration is ongoing.
Human-centric AI
Through our work with leading 
scientists and engineers to create  
the world’s most powerful AI  
supercomputers, we have learned  
a lot about what it takes to implement  
AI successfully and the pitfalls along the way. Our in-house research  
team not only applies best practices 
in its work, but contributes to 
the development of engineering 
solutions that address some of AI’s 
fundamental challenges, such as 
data privacy  and bias. 
We share the widespread concerns 
about maintaining unbiased, ethical 
practices in AI, and our global teams  
hold themselves to the highest 
standards of accountability, 
transparency, and explainability 
in everything they do. We share 
our AI technology expertise with 
others to help them do the same. 
We host seminars at GTCs around 
the world to train other engineers 
in upholding best practices. When 
engaging with governments, we 
emphasize the importance of 
supporting positive uses of AI while 
considering issues inherent in its 
development. We contribute to 
research  through Partnership on 
AI. For example, we participated in 
a study  on algorithmic risk in  
assessment tools within the criminal  
justice system. And we communicate  
to developers that they should 
consider potential algorithmic bias 
when choosing or creating models, 
and that they ensure they are using 
models under the conditions and in 
the manner intended.49NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
PHILANTHROPY 
AND 
VOLUNTEERISM
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Community engagement and 
interaction; outreach; support 
for local initiatives; corporate 
philanthropy, including monetary 
and in-kind donations and 
foundation grants
Coming Together 
Against COVID-19
Despite being physically distanced 
as a result of office closures related  
to COVID-19, NVIDIANs came 
together to help those affected by 
the pandemic. To date, employees 
and the company have donated more  
than $10.6 million to nonprofits to  
support COVID-19 response, reaching  
34 countries. Additionally, thousands  
of NVIDIANs participated in a 
company-wide challenge, which 
encouraged employees to take small  
actions to protect themselves and  
their communities, while containing 
the spread of the disease. Together,  
we completed more than 23,000+  
simple activities, like purchasing 
gift cards from small businesses, 
thanking frontline healthcare workers, supporting local 
restaurants, and staying connected  
—and unlocked a $250,000 donation 
to the World Health Organization. 
Thirty percent of our employees 
and one hundred percent of our 
offices participated in our COVID-19 
response efforts. These employee 
efforts amplified contributions 
made to COVID-19 initiatives by the 
company and its Foundation.
Inspire 365
NVIDIANs share a passion for 
supporting the communities in 
which we live and do business. 
Through our new Inspire 365 
initiative, which we introduced in 
FY20, the NVIDIA Foundation  helps 
turn this passion for giving into 
action.  Led by four staff members 
in partnership with employee 
champions around the world, our 
aim is to empower all NVIDIANs to 
get involved in their communities.
Inspire 365 makes it easy for 
employees to give back in the ways, 
and to the causes, most meaningful 
to them. Through matching gifts, 
flexible time off, and a variety of 
activities and tools, employees can 
contribute where, when, and how 
they choose. 50NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  SOCIAL
TOP 20 ORGANIZATIONS RECEIVING SUPPORT IN FY20:
 >Abode Services 
 >American Cancer Society 
 >Ashray Akruti 
 >China Women’s Development 
Fund
 >Doctors Without Borders USA 
 >Huaiji Zhennan Primary School 
 >Law Foundation of Silicon Valley 
 >LifeMoves 
 >Movember Foundation 
 >National Merit Scholarship  >Navkshitij 
 >Orphan Outreach 
 >PTA California 
 >Second Harvest of Silicon Valley 
 >Stanford University
 >Sukrupa 
 >Technovation 
 >The Society for Door Step Schools 
 >U&I Trust 
 >YWCA Silicon Valley
Organizations are listed in alphabetical order. Funding amounts range from 
$20,000 to more than $2 million.
OUR FY20 IMPACT  
$5.3M+ 
donated  
3,900+ 
nonprofits supported  
See the NVIDIA Foundation 
annual report  for FY20 activities 
in our communities.We celebrated the launch of 
Inspire 365 with nearly 70 giving 
events across 46 of our offices 
around the world in the first month. 
We also seeded each employee 
with $25 to donate to their favorite 
charity, and ran a special 2:1 
matching campaign.
And the impact of this new effort is 
clear in our FY20 results. NVIDIA’s 
philanthropic giving through 
contributions and community 
partnerships exceeded $5.3 million 
in FY20, and supported more 
than 3,900 nonprofits worldwide. 
Highlights of our giving and 
employee engagement efforts can 
be found below.
Giving Snapshot
METRIC FY20 FY19 
NVIDIANs involved in the Foundation’s 
giving programs 61% 32%
NVIDIA offices holding  
charitable-giving activities 94% 73%
Employee donations matched $1,853,728 $1,005,067
Unique volunteers 27% 18%
Volunteer hours / monetary value 11,993 / 
$304,98213,077 / 
$322,87151
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORTENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
We drive operational excellence to reduce our 
environmental impact. In support of this commitment, 
we identify and control environmental impacts and 
continuously improve our performance using a 
comprehensive environmental management system 
(EMS) through ISO 14001. Building on this success, we 
are implementing an energy management system with  
a view to seeking ISO 50001 certification in FY21. Our Environmental, Health, Safety, and Energy Policy  
provides the framework for our EMS. Our dedicated 
Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) and CSR 
teams work closely with employees around the globe to 
execute our environmental policies and practices, which 
are made tangible through goals and metrics that are 
annually reviewed with executives. 07
NVIDIA’s Environmental Objectives
CATEGORY GOAL TARGET DATE/
STATUSFY20 PROGRESS
Greenhouse gas 
emissions, offices, 
and data centersA 15 percent greenhouse gas reduction—
normalized per employee—by FY20 from 
baseline year FY14 FY20/Complete Up 6.1 percent compared to FY19 and 
down 15.1 percent compared to FY14 
baseline
Renewable energy Source 65 percent of global electricity use 
from renewable energy by end of FY25FY25/New Goal 34 percent in FY20
Waste A waste-to-landfill diversion rate of 80 
percent or greater each year at our Silicon 
Valley headquartersAnnual/Ongoing Achieved a 78 percent diversion rate 
in calendar year 2019
New headquarters 
buildingLEED Gold certification for our new 
Silicon Valley headquarters buildingFY22/Ongoing On track
Energy efficiency Implement an energy management 
system, certified to ISO 50001FY21/New Goal A third-party auditor completed  
a gap analysis in FY2052NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
GREENHOUSE 
GAS EMISSIONS 
AND CLIMATE 
CHANGE
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction 
and mitigation, including those  
related to our product 
manufacturing supply chain; 
climate risks and opportunities
We calculate scopes 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions for our global data centers  
and offices, gather primary data for 
all data centers and offices larger 
than 50,000 square feet (94  percent 
of our total scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions), and estimate emissions 
for offices less than 50,000 square 
feet (the remaining 6 percent). 
FY20 was the target year for our 
goal to reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG  
emissions by 15 percent per 
employee compared to FY14. Since 
this goal was originally set, we have 
substantially grown our business, 
as illustrated by a 164 percent 
increase in revenue, a 72 percent 
increase in headcount, and a 32 
percent increase in square footage 
between FY14 and FY20. Although we have seen a doubling 
of our total energy demand over the 
past six years, our scope 1 and 2 
emissions have increased by 46  
percent in absolute terms. In just 
the last year, our total energy use  
grew by 24 percent while our scope  
1 and 2 emissions increased by 10 
percent. When normalized, this  
is equivalent to a 15.1 percent  
reduction in emissions per employee 
since FY14, thereby delivering on  
our FY20 goal of 15 percent reduction  
per employee. 
Our rapid and significant business 
growth and the urgent climate 
action imperative mean that we 
must focus on siting expansions 
strategically, managing our 
operations efficiently, and sourcing  
low-carbon and renewable forms 
of energy to avoid growth in our 
GHG emissions footprint. 
With these objectives in mind, we  
are currently implementing 
an ISO 50001-aligned energy 
management system.  
Additionally, during FY20 we 
developed a new goal to source 65 
percent of our global electricity use 
from renewable energy by the end 
of FY25. In FY20, we obtained 34 
percent from renewable energy. We estimate that by delivering on these 
commitments we will reduce our 
total scope 1 and 2 emissions by 25 
percent between FY19 and FY25, 
which is in-line with a 1.5-degree 
Celsius warming scenario (see 
Energy  section).OUR GHG EMISSIONS 
REPORTING INCLUDES: 
 > Scope 1 : Stationary 
combustion sources (e.g., 
natural gas, diesel fuel) and 
HFC refrigerant emissions.  
 > Scope 2 : Purchased 
electricity use (offices, 
labs, data centers). 
 > Scope 3 : Emissions 
from operational waste, 
business travel, data center 
cooling load, product 
transportation, fuel, and 
energy-related activities.53NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
Supply Chain GHG
Our growing business causes GHG  
emissions beyond our direct 
footprint. This is because emissions 
are created at every stage of our 
product lifecycle, extending to our 
customers’ use and disposal of 
our products. Since 2014, we have 
required our key manufacturing 
suppliers to report their energy 
usage, GHG emissions data, and 
their reduction goals and objectives. 
We also require these suppliers to 
have their GHG emissions verified 
by a third party. We use this supplier 
data to help us better understand 
the GHG emissions footprint of 
our product manufacturing and to 
calculate the allocation of carbon 
emissions from tier 1 suppliers that 
are attributable to our customers. 
We track suppliers’ annual GHG and 
carbon emissions through the CDP 
and RBA Environmental Report. In 
FY21, we will survey our suppliers 
to better understand the renewable 
energy performance and capability 
of our manufacturing supply chain.Reporting and External 
Assurance 
Each year, we participate in the CDP  
climate change and water surveys. 
Participants are scored based on  
their understanding and management  
of their business risks, opportunities,  
and impacts related to climate 
change and water resources. In 
2018 and 2019 we scored an A-. See 
our 2019 CDP response .
We have engaged Trucost to provide 
limited assurance under the AA1000 
assurance standards on our FY20 
global scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
and scope 3 fuel- and energy-related  
activities (category 3) and business 
travel (category 6). View the 
assurance statement .
See the Environmental Performance  
table to view our GHG, Energy, Water, 
and Waste data. 70,000
010,00020,00030,00040,00050,00060,0005
01234 15% GHG/HC Goal
Scope 1 Scope 2 GHG / HeadcountMTCO2e / Headcount
FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20MTCO2eSCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS54NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
ENERGY, WATER, 
AND WASTE
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Energy and water sourcing; waste 
management; efficient energy 
use and conservation; renewable 
energy strategy; water scarcity; 
solid waste minimization (both 
hazardous and non-hazardous); 
proper care and disposal of 
hazardous waste; recycling 
efforts; and e-waste 
We are committed to protecting the 
environment by driving operational 
excellence in ways that reduce our 
environmental impact. In support  
of this commitment, we identify  
and control environmental impacts  
and continuously improve our 
performance using a comprehensive  
EMS. Our dedicated EHS and CSR 
teams work closely with employees 
in all offices around the globe to 
execute our policies and practices, 
which are made tangible through 
solid goals and metrics. 
See Facilities Management  to read 
about our ISO 14001 certification. 
See Environmental Performance   
for a broad list of metrics we track 
related to the environment.
Energy
Energy use, specifically electricity 
use, is the primary driver of our 
scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
footprint. Our total energy use 
increased by 24 percent in FY20 
compared to FY19, with 78 percent 
of this increase occurring in our 
data center operations. These 
operations have been growing 
rapidly along with our expanding 
business and our diversification 
into new online services. As we experience this increase in 
our global data center footprint, 
we’re working to incorporate 
environmental considerations—
including energy efficiency—and 
renewable power options into our 
data center siting and sourcing 
evaluations. In the last two years 
we have newly secured renewable 
power for several colocation data 
centers both in the United States 
and globally. 
As we have grown our data center 
operations, we have deployed 
state-of-the-art cooling technology 
designed for NVIDIA server products.  
Power distribution has increased 
voltage supply to deliver power 
more efficiently. Cooling solutions 
are closely coupled with server 
racks to localize and optimize heat 
transfer. We used computational 
fluid dynamic models to enhance 
cooling for data center designs and  
server rack deployments. Data 
centers have also been deployed 
with white surfaces to optimize 
reflective lighting. Controllable, 
high-efficiency LED lighting is 
installed where artificial lighting is 
needed. We share our data center 
best practices and optimizations 
with customers and partners to  educate and to optimize deployments. 
Our global offices were responsible 
for half of our total energy use in 
FY20. As we expand our global 
footprint, we are incorporating 
energy efficiency into the design of 
new buildings under our ownership,  
and we include energy efficiency 
and other sustainability attributes 
as selection criteria when evaluating  
new leased spaces. As our building 
systems necessarily become more 
sophisticated, we provide our 
facilities management teams with 
additional tools and training to 
ensure continued performance. 
During FY20 we saw new renewable 
energy supply contracts come 
online at our Bangalore, India, 
office and all three of our Germany 
locations. Following a successful 
solar panel implementation at our 
headquarters, we are evaluating 
opportunities for onsite solar 
photovoltaic generation elsewhere 
in our global portfolio. 55NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
Water
We use water in our direct operations  
in cooling towers and for food service,  
landscaping, and sanitation. We 
take steps to use water efficiently, 
particularly in locations that are 
vulnerable to drought conditions, 
such as California, where we have 
large facilities. As we develop and  
grow at our headquarters, we’re 
implementing measures to conserve  
water resources and reduce our 
potable water demand. 
Our newest headquarters building  
incorporates a range of water 
conservation measures. Through 
the installation of low-flow plumbing  
fixtures and the use of recycled 
water for toilet flushing, the building  
is designed to achieve a 42 percent 
reduction in domestic water demand  
and a 91 percent reduction in potable  
water use for sewage conveyance. 
We are using recycled water in 
the building’s cooling towers and 
landscape irrigation systems, and  
our landscaping consists of native, 
drought-resistant plants. We are  
incorporating similar water efficiency  
features and the use of recycled 
water for cooling towers, toilet 
flushing, and irrigation into the 
design of a second new building 
under construction at our 
headquarters campus. Our indirect uses of water include our  
product manufacturing supply chain.  
We require our key manufacturers 
to track and report their water use 
and share their reduction goals and 
initiatives with us. 
Waste
We have tracked total waste generated  
and diverted at our headquarters 
since FY08, and our annual goal 
for landfill diversion is 80 percent. 
In FY20, we achieved a 78 percent 
rate overall (75 percent of our 
operational waste and 83 percent of 
our construction project waste was 
diverted). In the last year, we  
implemented a range of measures 
to improve our diversion rate, such 
as simplifying and consolidating 
waste segregation at our headquarter  
campus; adding waste tracking and  
recycling requirements into our 
facilities project management 
process; providing training to our  
global facilities teams, including 
best practices in our Global Workplace  
Guidelines; and analyzing our 
waste streams to inform our waste 
segregation approach. 
Our employee restaurants and 
catering activities are an important 
focus for our waste program. Specific  
initiatives include replacing 
disposables with durable, washable tableware in our employee 
restaurants, implementing a food-
waste tracking system, replacing 
single-use items such as straws, 
and partnering with our food 
services vendor to make routine 
donations of food to homeless 
shelters.
We generate various types of 
e-waste, including servers, storage 
equipment, and networking 
equipment used in our data centers; 
computers, monitors, and other 
electronic equipment used by our 
employees; and NVIDIA products we 
use at our sites for testing and other 
purposes. All e-waste generated 
at NVIDIA facilities is disposed of in 
accordance with legal regulations, 
and we seek opportunities to donate 
fully functioning IT equipment to 
local community organizations. We  
partner with a global specialist 
e-waste vendor to ensure proper 
tracking, decommissioning, and 
recycling of our e-waste. 
See Environmental Performance  
for data on our various waste 
streams, including hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste.Our global network of office managers 
are empowered to implement sustainability  
projects, and by the end of FY20 they had 
completed over 140 actions in all regions 
in which we operate. 56NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
FACILITIES 
MANAGEMENT
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Policies and practices 
regarding overall environmental 
management at NVIDIA; 
environmental management 
systems (ISO 14001) and 
certifications; green building 
practices/LEED certification  
Our Silicon Valley headquarters and 
our product design, procurement, 
and supply chain functions have 
been ISO 14001 certified with zero 
nonconformances identified since 
FY06. View our ISO14001:2015 
certification  for FY20. Building on 
the success of our ISO 14001 EMS, 
we are implementing an energy 
management system with a view  
to seeking ISO 50001 certification 
in FY21. 
See Environmental Performance  
for a broad list of metrics we track 
related to the environment. 
Green Building Practices 
Our newest building at our Silicon 
Valley headquarters is LEED Gold 
certified and has been operational 
since September 2017. It was 
designed with high levels of energy 
efficiency in mind, including a 
high-performing building envelope, 
efficient and smart lighting systems  
that incorporate the use of daylight, 
underfloor air distribution, radiant  
heating and cooling, air and waterside  
economizers, and high-efficiency 
boilers and chillers. An advanced 
building control system underpins 
the building’s operation. We are also 
aiming for LEED Gold certification 
for another new building under 
construction at our headquarters. 
In addition to similarly advanced  
levels of energy- and water-efficient  
design, this building will feature biophilic elements and a shade-
providing external trellis that will 
house 2,000 solar panels to harness 
the location’s 260 days of sunshine 
per year. 
In FY20, we expanded our portfolio 
of certified green buildings with a  
new lease in a BREEAM  Outstanding  
certified building in Warsaw, Poland.  
This is also our first office to achieve  
certification to the WELL Standard  
for healthy buildings. Other certified 
green buildings in our global portfolio  
include offices in Pune, India (LEED 
Gold for interiors); Shanghai, China 
(LEED Silver); and Munich, Germany 
(BREEAM Gold); and a data center 
in Santa Clara, California (LEED 
Platinum certification for interiors). 
Commute Initiatives
We established a Green2Work 
program at our Silicon Valley 
headquarters in FY15 to support 
our employees in using alternative 
commute options and reducing their  
commute impacts. More than 
45 percent of our Silicon Valley 
employees and contractors currently  
take advantage of one or more of  
these commute offerings. The 
program includes electric vehicle 
charging, pre-tax dollars for transit  and local transit shuttles, last-mile 
shuttle service for train riders, 
resources for cyclists, advantages 
for carpooling and vanpooling, 
shuttles from San Francisco and 
Fremont, and an online resource 
for commuters. We have 39 electric  
vehicle charging stations at our  
headquarters and, to date, 962  
(17 percent) of employees at our  
headquarters location have used 
this service with the help of vehicle  
charging valets and parking attendants. 
In FY18, we started offering the 
Scoop carpooling service in Silicon 
Valley. By January 2020, NVIDIANs 
using Scoop avoided driving more 
than 635,000 miles and saved more  
than 575,000 pounds of CO2. For 
cyclists, we provide lockers, showers,  
and secure bike parking. To assist 
our alternative commuters in the 
event of an emergency, we offer  
an emergency ride home through 
Lyft or Uber.SUSTAINABLE FURNITURE  
Sustainability is an integral consideration in our Global Furniture Procurement Guidelines. The 
newly selected standard office chair for our US, Europe, and Middle Eastern offices incorporates 
almost 2 pounds of recycled fishing net material and is Living Product  certified. 57NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT OF 
PRODUCTS
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Designing for reduced 
environmental impacts associated 
with the application of NVIDIA 
products, such as products that 
maximize performance and 
minimize energy use; restricting 
hazardous substances
Whether we are designing technology  
to power next-generation notebooks 
or creating designs to support 
high-performance supercomputers, 
improving energy efficiency is a 
principal goal in each step of our 
research, development, and design 
processes. Parallel processing 
consumes far less power than 
equivalent computational forms. 
GPUs are up to 10 times more energy  
efficient than CPUs for parallel 
compute workloads.Processor Energy 
Efficiency—Desktop  
and Laptop
For general computing applications, 
GPUs are inherently more 
energy efficient than other ways 
of computation because they are 
optimized for throughput and 
performance per watt rather than 
absolute performance. In addition 
to general computing efficiency, 
GPU gaming power efficiency is  
critical for the success of our graphics  
architecture and helps to: 
 >Reduce thermal constraints to 
help deliver higher performance 
with more overclocking headroom.
 >Provide an excellent gaming 
experience while lowering the 
carbon footprint. We integrate both hardware and  
software to increase energy efficiency  
in our desktop and notebook products.  
Our most recent solutions include:
 > Max Frame Rate (MFR)  allows 
users to set the maximum 
frame rate for 3D applications 
and games. It optimizes power 
consumption while providing 
better perception and acoustics 
for the user.
 > WhisperMode  minimizes fan 
noise from laptops through the 
intelligent pacing of frame rates 
and efficient selection of game 
settings. This reduces the amount 
of heat generated by the GPU, 
thus reducing the amount of heat 
the laptop must dissipate.GREEN POWER   
NVIDIA GPUs power 90 percent of the top 30 supercomputers on the Green500 list .58NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
AI Performance and 
Efficiency
NVIDIA GPUs are 20 to 25 times 
more energy efficient than traditional  
CPU servers for AI workloads. 
Our HGX-2 cloud-server platform 
links 16 NVIDIA V100 Tensor Core 
GPUs to work as a single, giant 
GPU, delivering two petaflops of AI 
performance. This is a record in AI 
training speeds, replacing up to 300 
CPU-only servers at up to 1/18th 
of previous power consumption 
levels. In just two years, an NVIDIA 
AI system has reduced the time to 
train the image recognition model  
ResNet-50 from 8 hours to 80 minutes.  
As adoption of AI accelerates, our 
focus is shifting from training to 
inference—putting trained models 
to work in live applications run 
by millions of hyperscale servers 
worldwide. Our TensorRT inference 
software helps even the largest neural networks across a broad 
range of data center, embedded, 
and automotive applications run in 
real time. A hyperscale data center 
with NVIDIA GPUs and TensorRT 
takes up only 1/25th the space and 
power compared to CPU-based 
systems it replaces and runs at 90 
percent lower cost while providing 
utility to run all AI models.
The MLPerf  consortium  provides a 
machine-learning benchmark that 
measures system performance for 
training and inference from mobile  
devices to cloud services. In all 
six MLPerf training categories, 
NVIDIA demonstrated  world-class 
performance and versatility. Our 
AI platform set eight records in 
training performance, including 
three in overall performance at 
scale and five on a per-accelerator 
basis. And in MLPerf’s first inference  
benchmark, NVIDIA topped  all five benchmarks for offline and server 
data center scenarios. Our NVIDIA 
Turing GPUs provide the highest 
performance per processor among 
commercially available products. 
NVIDIA Xavier AI computer ranked 
as the highest performer among 
commercially available edge and 
mobile SoCs under single- and  
multi-stream edge-focused scenarios.MFR Power Comparison  
We performed power savings measurements in our performance lab on RTX 2080 and RTX 2070 graphics cards 
for desktop gaming against several benchmarks.* The results show significant power savings.
NVIDIA PRODUCT MFR OFF  
 
AVERAGE POWERMFR ON  
60FPS  
AVERAGE POWERMFR ON  
40FPS  
AVERAGE POWER
GeForce RTX 2080 Desktop, 1080p Apps 1.00x 0.49x 0.32x
GeForce RTX 2080 Desktop, 1440p Apps 1.00x 0.76x 0.45x
GeForce RTX 2070 Desktop, 1080p Apps 1.00x 0.66x 0.42x
GeForce RTX 2070 Desktop, 1440p Apps 1.00x 0.87x 0.63x
 
WhisperMode Power Comparison  
We performed power savings measurements on an RTX 2070 graphics-based gaming laptop. Our GPU-based 
laptop systems are highly optimized for system energy efficiency, but WhisperMode boosts efficiency by an 
average of 21 percent.
NVIDIA PRODUCT WHISPERMODE  
OFFWHISPERMODE  
ON
GeForce RTX 2070 Laptop, 1080p Apps 1.00x 0.79x
* Max Frame Rate and WhisperMode tests were performed across 12 benchmarks including: Assassin’s Creed Odyssey, Strange 
Brigade, Battlefield V, The Witcher 3, Ashes Of The Singularity Escalation, Middle-earth: Shadow of War. Power measured in 
terms of Total Graphics Power (TGP).59NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
Some of NVIDIA’s highly energy-efficient products and technologies include: 
NVIDIA TURING
Our eighth generation GPU architecture is the most powerful 
the world has ever seen, simulating the physical world at 6x 
the speed of its predecessor. The technologies within Turing 
fundamentally change computer graphics and enable exascale 
scientific applications meant to tackle global challenges 
such as extreme weather events, cancer, and nuclear waste 
remediation. To cite one example, four Quadro RTX Servers, 
equipped with eight Turing GPUs each, can do the rendering 
work of 240 dual-core CPU servers at 1/4th the cost, using 
1/10th the space, and consuming 1/11th the power.NVIDIA XAVIER
Our Xavier system-on-a-chip integrates the Volta GPU 
architecture, a custom eight-core CPU architecture, and a 
new computer vision accelerator. The processor performs at 
21 tera-operations per second (TOPS) while consuming only 
15 watts of power, and 14 TOPS at 10 watts. As the brain of 
self-driving cars, Xavier is designed to comply with critical 
automotive standards, such as the ISO 26262 functional 
safety specification.
NVIDIA DGX SYSTEMS
Built on the Volta GPU architecture, the NVIDIA DGX Station, 
DGX POD, DGX-1, and DGX-2 are AI supercomputers that 
provide the compute power to train deep neural networks 
significantly faster and create more intelligent AI. Designed 
variously for the desktop, the data center, or the cloud, the  
DGX systems’ energy-efficient consumption and fast computing  
mean a smaller IT infrastructure footprint and work that gets 
done more quickly.NGC
NGC is a GPU-accelerated container registry that enables 
data scientists and researchers to rapidly build, train, and 
deploy neural network models to address some of the most  
complicated AI challenges. Its catalog includes fully integrated  
and optimized deep learning framework containers and is 
optimized to run on any accelerated computing environment. 60
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
NVIDIA JETSON
NVIDIA Jetson is the world’s leading AI computing platform 
for GPU-accelerated parallel processing in mobile embedded 
systems. The compute density, energy efficiency, and AI 
inferencing capabilities of the NVIDIA Jetson AGX Xavier SoC 
offers high-performance, low-power computing for deep 
learning and computer vision that makes it the ideal platform 
for compute-intensive edge devices.NVIDIA NVLINK
NVLink interconnect technology lets data move between GPUs  
and CPUs five to 12 times faster than with PCI-Express. It 
doubles the number of GPUs that can work together in  
deep learning computations and enables more flexible and 
energy-efficient server design compared to PCI-E.
NVIDIA CUDA-X AI
CUDA is a parallel-computing platform and model that enables  
compute-intensive calculations to be executed on lower cost, 
power-efficient GPUs. More than 600 applications support 
CUDA, including the top 15 in high-performance computing.
EPEAT Registration
The EPEAT  program independently verifies electronic products and is used by thousands of private and public 
institutional purchasers around the world to make sustainable IT procurement decisions. All NVIDIA GPUs support 
EPEAT conformance and information is provided to customers seeking registration.
NVIDIA’s product recycling page  provides information to consumers 
about how to recycle the company’s branded products.61NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL
PACKAGING, 
TRANSPORT, 
AND LOGISTICS
WHAT IT COVERS:  
Reducing environmental impacts  
associated with product packaging,  
transportation, and logistics
Packaging
We strive to optimize a balance of  
protecting the environment and 
ensuring that our customers receive  
their products in excellent condition.  
We use 100 percent recycled fibers 
in 100 percent of our bulk carton 
packages and in over 80 percent of  
our consumer packages. We take  
every opportunity to reduce packing  
materials and increase the proportion  
of recyclable materials used. 
Whether products are packaged 
for end-users or prepared for bulk 
shipping, we design our containers 
to maximize package density and 
reduce overall package size. 
In FY20, we continued the 
environmental protection initiatives 
we implemented three years ago,  
which included development of  
smaller and lighter-weight 
packaging and creating a “core box” 
system so that primary packaging 
and shipping carton boxes can be 
shared among product SKUs. With 
product protection in mind, we 
use recyclable HDPE-2 in place 
of polystyrene PS-6 material 
wherever plastics are required. 
Our top priorities include removing 
film lamination, which in most 
communities renders packaging 
non-recyclable; switching the 
brand appearance from black ink 
to white, which facilitates removal 
of laminate; and switching tray 
components from plastics to 
paper-based materials. For automotive systems and our 
server products, such as the DGX-2  
and RTX Server, which require 
shipping in a large cardboard 
box with protective foam, we aim 
to maximize recyclability in all 
packaging materials. 
As a result, all of our packaging for 
consumer products (retail boxes) 
has maintained a recyclability rate 
well above 70 percent. Packaging 
for non-consumer products has 
maintained a recyclability rate above  
90 percent. We’re also reducing 
paper use by providing online 
instructions wherever possible. 
Other efforts to recycle and reduce 
packaging include using vegetable 
oil-based or water-based printing 
inks, using suppliers that leverage 
distribution centers to minimize 
the shipping footprint of packing/
packaging materials, and applying 
materials labels to 100 percent of 
our packages to simplify consumer 
recycling. Whenever possible, we 
reuse moisture-barrier bags, trays, 
and bulk cartons; ship products 
directly to the retail distributor; 
and use existing packaging for 
return merchandise authorization 
support, which further reduces 
the environmental impact and 
ecological footprint.
Our key packaging suppliers are  
compliant with NVIDIA’s 
environmental requirements for 
Forestry Stewardship Council, 
ROHS, Halogen Free, and REACH. 
Transport and Logistics
The methods we use to plan, pack, 
and execute our raw material, 
work-in-progress, and finished-
goods shipments have a significant 
effect on our carbon footprint. Fuel 
represents a major component of 
our overall freight costs, and our 
continuous focus on optimizing our supply chain and reducing freight 
expenditures has resulted in cost 
savings and a positive impact on 
the environment. The efforts we’ve 
made to optimize logistics include: 
 >Efficiently configuring packing  
to reduce the number of pickups  
and deliveries; 
 >Ensuring that subcontractor 
cartons and pallets are fully packed  
and efficiently unitized; 
 >Using lightweight paper or 
cardboard pallets, whenever 
feasible, to reduce shipment 
weights; 
 >Using a multimodal (ocean/truck) 
replenishment program within 
the U.S. and for retail distribution 
outside the U.S.; 
 >Requiring suppliers to report their 
participation in environmental 
initiatives on a quarterly basis; and
 >Using reverse logistics solutions 
that use onsite or regional failure  
verification and repair to streamline  
product returns and eliminate 
international shipments. 
We gather data from shipping 
partners related to the carbon 
emissions of our shipments from 
air, land, and sea. Our goal is to 
determine the appropriate metric 
by which to target reductions.We apply 
materials labels 
to 100 percent of  
our packages to  
simplify consumer  
recycling.62
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORTGOALS AND PERFORMANCE08
FY20 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE PROGRESS COMMENTS
Maintain Full member status in the RBA. 100% Achieved.
Social, Supply Chain Management and 
Product Quality
Implement method to track, allocate and report NVIDIA scope 
3 manufacturing GHG emissions from global supply chain to 
customers.100% Achieved.
Environmental, Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions and Climate Change
Achieve 100 percent RMAP-compliant tantalum, tin, tungsten, 
and gold processing facilities.85% This calculation is based on the 
percentage of the processing facilities in 
our supply chain that are compliant, as 
determined by the Responsible Minerals 
Assurance Process (RMAP). The majority 
of “non-compliant” smelting facilities 
in our supply chain include previously 
compliant smelters that have temporarily 
ceased operations and are no longer 
eligible for RMAP compliance.
Social, Materials Availability
Rank all active suppliers for their compliance with the RBA  
Code of Conduct, leveraging our RBA membership and using the 
RBA-Online platform.100% Achieved.
Social, Supply Chain Management and 
Product Quality63NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Work with suppliers deemed high risk to improve their RBA risk 
performance status.30% 30% of high or moderate risk suppliers 
have successfully lowered RBA risk 
performance. Work is ongoing to improve 
supplier VAP scores deemed high or 
moderate risk, but we expect delays in 
reporting and auditing due to impacts 
related to COVID-19.
Social, Supply Chain Management and 
Product Quality
Third party auditor to complete an ISO 50001 Energy 
Management System gap analysis.100% Complete.
Environmental, Management System
Continue tracking for LEED Gold points for planned second  
new Silicon Valley campus building.100% Ongoing.
Environmental, Management System
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION PROGRESS COMMENTS
Leverage existing and evaluate potential new training and tools 
that focus on supporting managers to identify and mitigate 
bias in areas including career growth, cultural sensitivity, 
communications style, and management development.100% Complete.
Social, Diversity and Inclusion
Provide sponsorship of underrepresented groups in technology 
through partnerships with Black in AI and Latinx in AI.  Offer 
conference fees and travel for attendance to our GPU 
Technology Conference, host networking event at the event  
for these groups. Sponsor Black in AI at NeurIPS conference.100% Complete.  
Social, Diversity and Inclusion
RISKS AND REPUTATION PROGRESS COMMENTS
Provide overviews to NVIDIA Board of Directors on Diversity and 
Inclusion and Societal Impacts of AI.100% Complete.
Stakeholder Engagement
Review all strategic suppliers for cybersecurity and intellectual 
property alignment to NVIDIA standards.100%  Complete.
Economic, CybersecurityFY20 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE ( Cont. )64NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
FY21 GOALS
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE
Maintain Full member status in the RBA
Expand quarterly business review process to include more strategic mechanical, component, and ODM suppliers
Work with suppliers deemed high risk to improve their RBA risk performance status
Achieve 100 percent RMAP-compliant tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold processing facilities
Rank all active suppliers for their compliance with the RBA Code of Conduct, leveraging our RBA membership and using the 
RBA-Online platform
Monitor disclosure demand for additional conflict minerals and materials, specifically the upcoming EU regulation. Achieve 100 
percent response rate from suppliers regarding cobalt
Integrate Russia EAC RoHS into New Product Introduction process
Enhance compliance to RBA Code of Conduct for Privacy, Intellectual Property, and Information Security
Achieve or exceed 80 percent landfill diversion rate for our Silicon Valley headquarters campus
Complete ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems Stage 1 Audit
Continue to track in line with LEED Gold criteria for our new headquarters building 
Make progress toward our new goal to source 65 percent of our global electricity use from renewable energy by the end of FY25
Pursue a lost-time incident rate of zero in the U.S.
Maintain work-related injury losses below industry average (as measured by an experience modification  rating of less than 1) 
in the U.S.
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION
Increase diversity of candidate pool by improving outreach to the Black community and other underrepresented minorities and 
improve retention of diverse employees by creating internal opportunities  
Sponsor underrepresented groups in technology through partnerships with Black in AI, Latinx in AI, Rewrite the Code, Recruit 
Military, and ARCS Foundation
Sponsor Queer in AI, WIML, and Disabilities in AI at NeurIPS and several other high-profile conferences
Sponsor conference fees to our GPU Technology Conferences and host networking events for new diversity partners
RISKS AND REPUTATION
Evaluate membership in Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
Maintain inclusion on key workplace and CSR lists65NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
INDICATOR (DOLLARS REPRESENTED IN MILLIONS) FY20 FY19 FY18
Revenue $10,918 $11,716 $9,714
Total operating expenses $3,922 $3,367 $2,612
Net income $2,796 $4,141 $3,047
Gross margin 62.0% 61.2% 59.9%
Income tax expense (benefit) $174 ($245) $149
Total assets $17,315 $13,292 $11,241
Total shareholders’ equity $12,204 $9,342 $7,471
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $17,315 $13,292 $11,241
R&D expenses $2,829 $2,376 $1,797
Revenue by Region  
$10.91B
FY20$11.72B
FY19$9.71B
FY18
Taiwan  
28%China  
25%Other Asia 
Pacific  
25%Taiwan  
29%China  
24%Other Asia 
Pacific  
20%Taiwan  
31%China  
20%Other Asia 
Pacific  
21%
Europe  
9%United 
States  
8%Other 
Countries  
5%Europe  
8%United 
States  
13%Other 
Countries  
6%Europe  
8%United 
States  
13%Other 
Countries  
7%66NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
DIVERSITY PERFORMANCE
We gather information for this report at the end of the fiscal year, and the data points in the accompanying charts 
reflect a snapshot of our employee/contractor base at that time.
Learn more about our approach in the Diversity and Inclusion  section.
Racial / Ethnic Diversity Snapshot*
RACE/ETHNICITY FY20 FY19 FY18
Asian/Indian 49.2% 50.2% 50.1%
White 38.2% 38.7% 41.1%
Hispanic/Latino 3.4% 3.3% 3.3%
Black/African American 1.1% 1.0% 1.0%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
American Indian/Alaska Native 0.2% 0.1% 0.1%
Two or more races 0.9% 0.7% 0.5%
Decline to state/not specified 6.7% 5.7% 3.6%
TOTAL 100% 100% 100%
* Minority data represents the United States only.
Gender Data
FY20
POPULATIONFY19
POPULATIONFY18
POPULATION
Men  
80.5%Women  
18.9%Not 
declared  
0.6%Men  
80.9%Women  
18.9%Not  
declared  
0.2%Men  
81.4%Women  
18.6%Not 
declared  
0%
 67NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Gender Diversity Snapshot
POSITIONS HELD BY WOMEN FY20 FY19 FY18
Outside directors 18.2% 18.2% 20.0%
Executive officers 40.0% 40.0% 40.0%
Leaders 10.5% 11.0% 8.5%
Managers 16.2% 16.5% 16.1%
In technical roles 13.6% 13.7% 13.3%
In global workforce 18.9% 18.9% 18.6%
New hires, % globally 18.8% 20.4% 19.2%
New hires, number globally 265 501 353
Gender Turnover
The turnover rate for women and men has remained similar for the past several years. 
GENDER FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16 FY15
Female 6.9% 5.6% 5.4% 6.7% 9.4% 7.9%
Male 6.7% 5.7% 5.3% 6.3% 13.9% 8.2%
Age Data  
FY20
POPULATIONFY19
POPULATIONFY18
POPULATION
20-30 Years  
22.0%20-30 Years  
23.4%20-30 Years  
23.5%
31-50 Years  
63.0%31-50 Years  
62.5%31-50 Years  
62.7%
51+ Years  
15.0%51+ Years  
14.1%51+ Years  
13.8%68
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
WORKFORCE PERFORMANCE
We gather information for this report at the end of the fiscal year, and the data points in the accompanying charts 
reflect a snapshot of our employee/contractor base at that time.  
Employee Profile
METRIC FY20 FY19 FY18
Employees 13,775 13,277 11,528
Offices 62 57 48
Countries 22 22 21
Headcount by Type
REGION Full Time Part Time Contractors Interns
Americas 7,576 10 1,363 98
APAC 2,596 0 404 64
India 2,525 1 1,999 100
EMEA 1,045 22 89 10
Total Count 13,742 33 3,855 272
Employee Type by Level  
Executive Management Regular Employee Total
23 2,466 11,286 13,775
(0.2%) (17.9%) (81.9%)
New Hires by Age Group New Hires by Gender New Hires by Region
1,408
TOTAL HIRES1,408
TOTAL HIRES1,408
TOTAL HIRES
20-30 Years  
713 (50.6%)51+ Years  
89 (6.3%)Male  
1,090 (77.4%)Not Declared  
53 (3.7%)Americas  
790 (56.1%)India  
229 (16.3%)
31-50 Years  
606 (43.0%)Female  
265 (18.9%)APAC  
234 (16.6%)EMEA  
155 (11.0%)69
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Promotion and Retention
In FY20, we promoted 13.8 percent of our workforce. Of the 1,907 promotions, women comprised 364 (19 percent, 
which is roughly the total percentage in the company). In the U.S., 570 U.S. promotions were for members of minority 
groups. Women continue to be promoted at an equal rate to men, 13.9 percent versus 13.8 percent in FY20.
NVIDIA’s turnover remains low at 6.7 percent in FY20, compared to the semiconductor industry average of 14 percent, 
according to Radford’s Q4 2019 Workforce Trends Report. Our voluntary turnover rate is 6.5 percent, which is well 
below the semiconductor industry average of 10 percent. 
Retention rates for women and employees from our Black and Latinx communities have held equal to their peers.
TURNOVER TYPE FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16* FY15
Overall Turnover 6.7% 5.6% 5.6% 6.7% 13.0% 8.7%
Voluntary Turnover 6.5% 5.4% 5.1% 5.8% 7.2% 7.9%
* Our turnover rate increased in FY16 due to a business closure.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Due to rounding, numbers presented in the tables below may not add up precisely to the totals indicated and 
percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures for the same reason.
See the Environmental  section for info on our policies and objectives. 
Greenhouse Gas Data
METRIC FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16
GHG Scope 1, total global (tCO2e)  2,817 2,675 2,370 2,571 2,419
  Stationary natural gas  2,577 2,384 2,267 2,313 2,316
  Stationary distillate fuel oil  46 54  43 78 71
  Gasoline  80 119  44 42 16
  Refrigerants     114 118  16 139 16
  Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) (Santa Clara headquarters  
     lab operations)0 <1 kg <1 kg Not 
trackedNot 
tracked
GHG Scope 2, total global (tCO2e), market-based a 65,936  60,093 56,903 47,142 43,889
  Purchased and used electricity 65,882  59,282 56,460 46,721 43,487
  Purchased heating/cooling  54  811 443 421 402
Total GHG emissions, Scope 1 and 2 (tCO2e) a68,753  62,767 59,273 49,713 46,308
Normalized GHG emissions per headcount (Scope 1 and 2 
total/headcount) 3.84 3.60 3.88 4.01 4.26
Percent change in normalized GHG emissions per 
employee, compared to FY14-15% -20% -14% -11% -6%
GHG Scope 2, total global (tCO2e) a, location-based  74,692 65,107 50,863 51,224 48,77470
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
GHG Scope 3 (tCO2e)  415,913 427,730 326,648 277,014 237,579
  Purchased goods and services (indirect procurement)  224,687 254,071 190,734 150,741 159,976
  Capital goods  72,946 49,964 50,463 78,076 31,748
  Fuel- and energy-related activities not included in 
Scope 1 and 2 27,885 24,146 21,613 20,246 19,055
  Upstream transportation and distribution b30,380 38,352 28,590 Not 
trackedNot 
tracked
  Waste generated in operations c 752 991 405 240 839
  Business travel  31,285 51,525  31,360  25,064  23,285 
  Employee Commuting d17,929 Not 
trackedNot 
trackedNot 
trackedNot 
tracked
  Upstream leased assets 9,329 8,681 3,483 2,647 2,676
Scope 1 carbon dioxide emissions (metric tons) 2,698 2,551 2,349 2,427 2,398
Scope 1 nitrous oxide emissions (metric tons) 2 2 2 2 2
Scope 1 methane emissions (metric tons) 4 4 3 4 3
Sulfur dioxide emissions (metric tons) e0.08 0  0.08  0.14  0.12 
VOC emissions (metric tons) e0.15 0.24  0.17  0.16  0.15 
Carbon monoxide emissions (metric tons) e0.26 0.31  0.25  0.44  0.41 
ODS emissions from HCFCs (metric tons R-11e) e0.002 0.006 0.003 0.010 0.004
Particulate emissions (metric tons) e0.09 0.10  0.08  0.14  0.13 
Energy, Water, and Waste
METRIC FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16
Energy used, global (MWh) 244,760 197,074 151,164 139,847 131,316
  Energy per headcount, global (MWh/headcount) 13.67  11.36  9.90  11.27  12.07 
  Non-renewable fuels purchased and consumed (MWh) 14,635 13,611 12,894 13,270  13,217 
  Non-renewable electricity purchased (MWh) 150,732 94,216 86,045 90,923 85,115
  Steam/heating/cooling and other energy  
(non-renewable) purchased (MWh)210 227  196  185  141 
  Total renewable energy purchased or generated for own 
consumption (MWh) f79,184                                                                    89,020 52,029 35,470  32,844 
  Renewable electricity as percentage of total electricity f34%                                                           49% 38% 28% 28%
  Total power generated, onsite solar (MWh) 749 772 719 0 0
Water withdrawal, global (cubic meters) 315,599 319,713    265,030    213,625    196,309 Greenhouse Gas Data (Cont.)71NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
  Surface water 0 0 0 0 0
  Groundwater 4,136 g32,208  20,264  13,535  24,364 
  Rainwater collected directly and stored 0 0 0 0 0
  Wastewater from another organization 31,644 47,737  13,796 0 0
  Municipal water supplies or other public/private water 
utilities279,819 239,768  230,970  200,090 171,945 
Percent of water (internally) recycled 0 0 0 0 0
Water consumption, global (cubic meters) h72,378 96,196  61,169 39,506  29,127
Water discharge, global (cubic meters) 243,221 223,517 203,860 174,119 167,182 
Total waste, corporate headquarters (metric tons) i5,290 18,344 j 2,670 2,987 15,626 j
Total waste recycled/composted 4,100 16,554 1,973 2,260  14,790 
  Landfill diversion rate 78% 90% 74% 76% 95%
  General waste recycled 1,682 1,288  334 138 105
  General waste composted 1,116 1,008  874 799 651
  Clean paper recycled 19 29  102 145 70
  Batteries recycled 2  46  2 2 1
  Hazardous waste recycled 2   4  0.4 1 1
  Electronic waste recycled 75 128  59  63 96 
  Lamps recycled 0.3   0.2  0.5 1 1
  Construction/demolition waste recycled 1,205 14,051 j  602 1,111 13,866 j
Total waste landfilled 1,189  1,790  696  726  836 
   General waste landfilled 945 617  474 480 349
  Hazardous waste landfilled 0      0  0   0 0
  Construction/demolition waste landfilled 245  1,174  223 246 487
a Selected historic values have been updated to reflect changes in methodologies or corrections to data. For example, we are now 
calculating Scope 2 market-based and location-based emissions per the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol and have updated prior years’ 
data to align with the new methodology. 
b In FY18, we started reporting Scope 3 upstream transportation emissions.
c The Scope 3 GHG emissions for waste generated in operations reflect the waste at our corporate headquarters only.
d In FY20, we began reporting on Scope 3 employee commute emissions.
e As of FY18, these metrics have been calculated and reported with historical year values updated. ODS emissions are from HCFCs;  
sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, and particulate emissions are from diesel generators. VOCs are from diesel generators and Santa 
Clara campus lab solvent usage (e.g., wipe cleaning).
f In FY18, we started calculating our global renewable energy use, excluding grid and including renewables from generation, utilities, 
and residual mix. Previous years reflect renewables only from our local utility in Silicon Valley.
g In FY20, less groundwater was available at our Pune, India site.
h Water consumption includes water consumed by landscaping and evaporated in a cooling tower for our new headquarters building.  
i Waste data for corporate headquarters is estimated on a calendar year basis.
j We accumulated a large amount of demolition debris as part of our project to construct a new Silicon Valley headquarters building.  
88 percent of this debris was recycled in FY16 and 92 percent was recycled in FY19.Energy, Water, and Waste (Cont.)72NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
METRIC FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 FY16
Lost-time incident rate (U.S.) 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.11 0.11
Total recordable incident rate (U.S.) 0.25 0.00 0.17 0.19 0.19
Fatalities (global) 0 0 0 0 0
GRI INDEX
We applied the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards  to 
produce this FY20 CSR Report. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. 
Per the GRI Standards, we indicate the location of the required “General Disclosures” and each of the  
“Topic-Standard Disclosures” related to our priority issues (“Management Approach for Material Topics” and 
selected disclosures). In some cases, we provide a direct response to disclosures or additional information 
related to content located on the main pages of the report within the index itself. 
2020 GRI Content Index
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016*
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization 2020 10-K
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and 
services2020 10-K
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA Products
102-3 Location of headquarters Santa Clara, California, USA
102-4 Location of operations Our Locations
Significant operations in U.S. (California), India, and China. 
Offices in 21 countries. 
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2019 Proxy Statement
102-6 Markets served Our Locations
2020 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization Goals and Performance, Economic
Goals and Performance , Diversity  
Goals and Performance, Workforce
NVIDIA Products73NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
102-8 Information on employees and other 
workersGoals and Performance, Diversity  
Goals and Performance, Workforce
NVIDIA employs several contract employees globally who  
provide a variety of roles across our operations and administrative  
functions. Current temporary worker percentage is 21.5% of 
total headcount (employees + contractors). 
102-9 Supply chain Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
102-10 Significant changes to the 
organization and its supply chainNone.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach We do not specifically apply the precautionary principle. A 
description of the role of the Board in risk oversight is located in 
the 2019 Proxy Statement.
2019 Proxy Statement
102-12 External initiatives Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
102-13 Membership of associations Social, Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-
makerExecutive Letters, Message from our CEO  
Executive Letters, Message from our EVP of Operations
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behavior Governance, Ethical Conduct
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsGovernance, Ethical Conduct
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance
NVIDIA has two committees responsible for decision-making on 
economic, environmental, and social topics: an executive-level 
committee, and a staff-level committee. NVIDIA’s board-level 
Nominating and Governance Committee oversees CSR. GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016* ( Cont .)
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER74NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employees in the U.S., Canada, India, and APAC regions are not 
unionized. Employees in Brazil are unionized and make up .1% 
of our total population. Employees in Finland, France, Germany, 
Italy, and Poland (which make up 3.8% of our total employee 
population) could participate in unions but NVIDIA is legally 
not allowed to inquire with them about their involvement. 3.9% 
represents the highest possible unionized presence that could 
exist in NVIDIA’s workforce. NVIDIA participates in collective 
bargaining agreements in Finland, France, and Italy. Employees 
in Germany have formal representation on work councils, and 
our France offices have employee representatives. 
102-42 Identifying and selecting 
stakeholdersStakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder 
engagementNo engagement undertaken specifically as part of the report.
Stakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders, Stakeholder Engagement
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements 2020 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic 
BoundariesPriorities
102-47 List of material topics Priorities
102-48 Restatements of information There were no restatements of information.
102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant changes in reporting.
102-50 Reporting period About this Report
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report
102-53 Contact point for questions 
regarding the reportAbout this ReportGRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016* ( Cont .)
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER75NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 
with the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 
Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance Environment, Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Change
We did not seek external assurance for the report. NVIDIA’s 
internal audit function reviews elements of our CSR program, 
focusing on workforce and supply chain data points. Trucost 
provides limited assurance  for our CDP report, reviewing scope 
1, 2 and some scope 3 metrics, which are also featured in this 
report. Our pay data and equal pay metrics are evaluated by 
Economist, Inc. annually. Framework ESG assesses stakeholder 
information annually, to inform our Priority Issues matrix.   
* With the exception of GRI 303 and 403 that apply the 2018 version of the GRI Standards, NVIDIA’s 2020 Sustainability Report applies the 
2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report.
2020 GRI Content Index
GRI 103: TOPICS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES 2016*
MATERIAL 
TOPICMANAGEMENT APPROACH  
CROSS-REFERENCERELEVANT EXTERNAL ENTITIES
Economic
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 20162020 10-K
2019 CDP ResponseCustomers
Consumers
Shareholders
Developers
Suppliers
Government
Communities
GRI 206:  
Anti-competitive 
Behavior 2016Economic , Business Model and Competitiveness Customers
Government
Shareholders
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy 
2016Environment , Energy
Environment , Environmental Impacts of ProductsCustomers
Consumers
Developers
Suppliers
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016Social , Supply Chain Management and Product Quality
Social , Materials AvailabilitySuppliersGRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016* ( Cont .)
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE OR ANSWER76NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Social
GRI 401: 
Employment 2016Social , Talent Strategy
Stakeholders , Stakeholder EngagementProspective employees  
Shareholders
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety 
2018Social , Employee Health and Safety Prospective employees
Shareholders
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 2016Social , Talent Strategy Prospective employees
GRI 414: Supplier 
Social Assessment 
2016Social , Supply Chain Management and Product Quality Customers
Shareholders
Suppliers
GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy 2016Economic , Cybersecurity
NVIDIA Privacy PolicyCustomers
Consumers
Shareholders
Governments
* With the exception of GRI 303 and 403 that apply the 2018 version of the GRI Standards, NVIDIA’s 2020 Sustainability Report applies the 
2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report.
 
2020 GRI Content Index
GRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016*
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS,  
AND EXPLANATIONS
Economic
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributedGoals and Performance, Economic
2020 10-K
NVIDIA Foundation Report
201-2 Financial implications and other 
risks and opportunities due to 
climate change2019 CDP submission
201-4 Government financial assistance We have funding from the Department of  
Energy, DARPA and the Department of Defense  
for GPU-related research. No governments 
are present in NVIDIA’s shareholder structure.
Stakeholders, Stakeholder EngagementGRI 103: TOPICS AND TOPIC BOUNDARIES 2016* (C ont.)
MATERIAL 
TOPICMANAGEMENT APPROACH  
CROSS-REFERENCERELEVANT EXTERNAL ENTITIES77NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
GRI 206:  
Anti-competitive 
Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, anti-trust, 
and monopoly practicesIn FY20 there were no legal actions for  
anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or 
monopoly practices.
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy 
2016302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organizationGoals and Performance, Environmental
302-3 Energy intensity Goals and Performance, Environmental
302-4 Reductions in energy 
consumptionEnergy consumption initiatives implemented 
during FY20 are projected to deliver total 
annual electricity savings of 4,673 gigajoules. 
The projections are derived from engineering 
estimates. Initiatives include upgrades to 
high efficiency lighting, HVAC and controls; 
installation of a high efficiency hybrid chiller 
and data center equipment tuning to increase 
efficiency. 
302-5 Reductions in energy 
requirements of products and 
servicesEnvironment , Environmental Impact  
of Products  
GRI 303: Water and 
Effluents 2018**303-3 Water withdrawal Goals and Performance, EnvironmentalGRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016* ( Cont. )
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS,  
AND EXPLANATIONS78NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
GRI 305: 
Emissions 2016**305-1 Scope 1 GHG emissions Goals and Performance, Environmental
305-2 Scope 2 GHG emissions Goals and Performance, Environmental
305-3 Scope 3 GHG emissions Goals and Performance, Environmental
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Our GHG emissions intensity, ratio is, 3.84 
compared to 4.52 in our baseline FY14. The  
metric chosen to calculate the ratio is our  
global headcount of employees and contractors  
= 17,902 in FY20. Scope 1 and scope 2 
emissions (68,753 tCO2e) are included in the 
intensity ratio. 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment, Greenhouse Gas Emissions and 
Climate Change
Goals and Performance, Environmental
305-6 Emissions of ODS Goals and Performance, Environmental
305-7 NOX, SOX, and other significant 
air emissionsGoals and Performance, Environmental
GRI 306: Effluents 
and Waste 2016**306-2 Waste by type and disposal 
methodGoals and Performance, Environmental
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
Compliance 2016**307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulationsTo date, we have not incurred significant 
expenses related to environmental regulatory 
compliance matters.
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016308-1 New suppliers screened using 
environmental criteriaIn 2016 we implemented a process for new 
suppliers, which includes screening them for 
environmental and social criteria. 100% of 
new suppliers were screened in FY20.
Social, Supply Chain Management and 
Product QualityGRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016* ( Cont .)
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS, 
AND EXPLANATIONS79NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Social
GRI 401: 
Employment 2016401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnoverGoals and Performance, Diversity  
Goals and Performance, Workforce
401-2 Full-time benefits not provided  
to temporary/part-time 
employeesWe provide employees with a comprehensive 
benefits package (see NVIDIA benefits 
for more information). U.S. employees 
are eligible to enroll in NVIDIA’s health 
and welfare programs if they are regular, 
full-time or part-time employees normally 
scheduled to work 20 hours or more  
per week and more than 5 months/year. 
Part-time employees working fewer than  
20 hours/week are not eligible.
Social, Talent Strategy
NVIDIA benefits
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety 
2018403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management systemSocial, Employee Health and Safety
403-9 Work-related injuries Social, Employee Health and Safety
Goals and Performance, Employee Health  
and Safety
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
2016404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsTransition support is available through the 
Employee Assistance Program, which is 
available through COBRA. In some cases,  
NVIDIA may provide outplacement services.  
NVIDIA’s Learning & Development organization  
provides skills building and lifelong learning 
opportunities.
Social, Talent Strategy
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews100% of employees receive regular 
performance and career development reviews.
GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 2016**405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 
and employeesGoals and Performance, Diversity  
Goals and Performance, Workforce
Our board gender/racial diversity is 25%. 
NEO gender diversity is 40% and NEO gender, 
racial, and ethnic diversity is 80%.GRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016* ( Cont .)
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS, 
AND EXPLANATIONS80NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
GRI 407: Freedom 
of Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining 2016**407-1 Operations and suppliers in 
which the right to freedom 
of association and collective 
bargaining might be at riskWe ask our suppliers to submit RBA  
Self-Assessment Questionnaires on an 
annual basis, in which they self-report 
information on freedom of association and 
collective bargaining. We validate this with 
critical tier 1 suppliers through the RBA 
Validated Audit Process protocol.
Social, Supply Chain Management and 
Product Quality
NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct
Corporate Responsibility Directive
RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 408: Child 
Labor 2016**408-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of 
child laborWe ask our suppliers to submit RBA  
Self-Assessment Questionnaires on an annual 
basis, in which they self-report information on 
child labor. We validate this with critical tier 
1 suppliers through the RBA Validated Audit 
Process protocol. 
Social, Supply Chain Management and 
Product Quality
NVIDIA’s Code of Conduct
RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 409: Forced or 
Compulsory Labor 
2016**409-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory laborWe ask our suppliers to submit RBA  
Self-Assessment Questionnaires on an annual 
basis, in which they self-report information 
on forced or bonded labor. We validate this 
with critical tier 1 suppliers through the RBA 
Validated Audit Process protocol.
Social, Supply Chain Management and 
Product Quality
Combatting Trafficking in Persons Policy
RBA Code of Conduct
GRI 414: Supplier 
Social Assessment 
2016414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria In 2016 we implemented a process for new 
suppliers, which includes screening them for 
environmental and social criteria. 100% of 
new suppliers were screened in FY20.
Social, Supply Chain Management and 
Product QualityGRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016* ( Cont .)
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS, 
AND EXPLANATIONS81NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
GRI 417: Marketing 
and Labeling 
2016**417-2 Incidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labelingWe consider significant incidents of  
non-compliance those that are disclosed in 
the company’s SEC filings. There were no such 
incidents in FY20 that fell into this category.
GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy 2016418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of customer  
privacy and losses of customer 
dataWe consider significant substantiated 
complaints those that are disclosed in the  
company’s SEC filings. There were no 
substantiated complaints in FY20 that fell  
into this category.
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 2016**419-1 Non-compliance with laws and 
regulations in the social and 
economic areaWe consider significant fines those that are 
required to be disclosed in the company’s SEC 
filings. We were not subject to any significant 
fines in FY20 for non-compliance with laws 
and regulations.
* With the exception of GRI 303 and 403 that apply the 2018 version of the GRI Standards, NVIDIA’s 2020 Sustainability Report applies the 
2016 version of the GRI Standards; “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report.
** We have reported additional disclosures not related to material topics.
 
SASB INDEX
We are responding for the first time to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board for the Technology and 
Communications sector, Semiconductor industry. 
As we are a fabless semiconductor company, we have been asked by SASB to not provide metrics for direct 
energy, water, and waste metrics for our suppliers as it hinders comparison against suppliers with manufacturing 
facilities. We monitor the environmental footprint of our suppliers and work with them through the supplier 
management process on goal setting and activities they can undertake to reduce their environmental impact. 
We calculate carbon, water, and waste data of all silicon manufacturers and systems contract manufacturers to 
determine carbon emissions and water consumption per product and per financial outlay.
 
TOPIC CODE METRIC UNIT OF 
MEASURERESPONSE/LOCATION
Greenhouse Gas 
EmissionsTC-SC-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions Metric tons (t) 
CO2-eEnvironmental Performance
Amount of total emissions from 
perflourinated carbonsMetric tons (t) 
CO2-eEnvironmental Performance
TC-SC-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and 
short-term strategy or plan to 
manage Scope 1 emissions, 
emissions reduction targets, 
and an analysis of performance 
against those targetsN/A 2019 CDP Response  pp. 35-48GRI 200-400 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 2016* ( Cont .)
 TOPIC DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION CROSS-REFERENCE, OMISSIONS, 
AND EXPLANATIONS82NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Energy 
Management in 
ManufacturingTC-SC-130a.1 Total energy consumed Gigajoules (GJ) NVIDIA is a fabless 
semiconductor company 
and does not have its own 
manufacturing facilities. 
Discussion of how we work 
with suppliers to track 
energy, waste, and water 
see our GHG and Climate 
Change  section. Percentage of total energy 
consumed that is grid electricityPercentage (%)
Percentage of total energy 
consumed that is renewablePercentage (%)
Water 
ManagementTC-SC-140a.1 Total water withdrawn Thousand 
cubic meters 
(m³)NVIDIA is a fabless 
semiconductor company 
and does not have its own 
manufacturing facilities. 
Discussion of how we work 
with suppliers to track 
energy, waste, and water 
see our GHG and Climate 
Change  section. Total water consumed Thousand 
cubic meters 
(m³)
Percentage of total water 
withdrawn in regions with High 
or Extremely High Baseline 
Water StressPercentage (%)
Percentage of water consumed 
in regions with High or 
Extremely High Baseline Water 
StressPercentage (%)
Waste 
ManagementTC-SC-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste 
from manufacturingMetric tons (t) NVIDIA is a fabless 
semiconductor company 
and does not have its own 
manufacturing facilities. 
Discussion of how we work 
with suppliers to track 
energy, waste, and water 
see our GHG and Climate 
Change  section. Percentage of hazardous waste 
from manufacturing that is 
recycledPercentage (%)
The entity shall disclose 
the legal or regulatory 
framework(s) used to define 
hazardous waste and recycled 
hazardous waste, and the 
amounts of waste defined in 
accordance with each applicable 
frameworkN/ASASB Index (Cont.)
TOPIC CODE METRIC UNIT OF 
MEASURERESPONSE/LOCATION83NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Employee Health 
& SafetyTC-SC-320a.1 Discussion of efforts to assess, 
monitor, and reduce exposure 
of employees to human health 
hazardsN/A NVIDIA is a fabless 
semiconductor company.  
We manage the health and 
safety of workers in our supply 
chain through membership 
in the Responsible Business 
Alliance. We comply with 
the RBA code of conduct, 
and require suppliers to 
complete self-assessments 
and participate in audits every 
two years. See Supply Chain  
for more information, and the 
Employee Health and Safety  
section for how we manage EHS 
across our corporate campuses.TC-SC-320a.2 Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with employee health 
and safety violationsReporting 
currency
The entity shall briefly describe 
the nature, context, and any 
corrective actions taken as a 
result of the monetary lossesN/A
Recruiting & 
Managing a 
Global & Skilled 
WorkforceTC-SC-330a.1 Percentage of employees that 
are foreign nationalsPercentage (%) Percentage of foreign nationals 
not disclosed. 
Percentage of employees that 
are located offshorePercentage (%) Workforce Performance
Disclosure shall include a 
description of potential risks 
of recruiting foreign nationals 
and/or offshore employees, 
and management approach to 
addressing these risksN/A 2020 10-K, p. 16SASB Index (Cont.)
TOPIC CODE METRIC UNIT OF 
MEASURERESPONSE/LOCATION
.84NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
Product Lifecycle 
ManagementTC-SC-410a.1 Percentage of products by 
revenue that contain IEC 62474 
declarable substancesPercentage (%) Approximately 42% of products 
contain IEC 62474 declarable 
substances.
Disclosure shall include a 
discussion of efforts to minimize 
usage of these substancesN/A NVIDIA is working with 
Digital Europe and European 
Commission to research and 
develop viable alternatives.
TC-SC-410a.2 Processor energy efficiency at a 
system-level for serversVarious, 
by product 
categoryProcessor energy efficiency for 
servers not reported.
Processor energy efficiency at a 
system-level for desktopsVarious, 
by product 
categoryEnvironmental Impact of 
Products
Processor energy efficiency at a 
system-level for laptopsVarious, 
by product 
categoryEnvironmental Impact of 
Products
Disclosure shall include a 
discussion of efforts to design 
for new and emerging usage 
patterns with respect to 
energy efficiency in all product 
categories (i.e., applications 
for servers, desktops, laptops, 
workstations, netbooks, tablets, 
mobile phones, and storage).N/A 2019 CDP Response  C2.4a, pp. 
20-21.
Materials Sourcing TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management 
of risks associated with use of 
critical materialsN/A NVIDIA is primarily focused on 
the risks associated with the 
recognized “conflict minerals” 
which includes Tantalum, Tungsten  
and Cobalt from the list.
Materials Availability
2019 Form SD
Intellectual 
Property 
Protection & 
Competitive 
BehaviorTC-SC-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anti-competitive 
behavior regulationsReporting 
currencyIn FY20 there were no legal 
actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, or 
monopoly practices.
The entity shall briefly describe 
the nature, context, and any 
corrective actions taken as a 
result of the monetary lossesN/A N/ASASB Index (Cont.)
TOPIC CODE METRIC UNIT OF 
MEASURERESPONSE/LOCATION85NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORT  GOALS  AND  PERFORMANCE
TCFD INDEX
We are responding for the first time to the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. As of June 
2020, we are not currently members of the TCFD, however the company will evaluate membership in FY21. 
TCFD REPORT
DISCLOSURE 
ITEMRECOMMENDED 
DISCLOSUREDESCRIPTION NVIDIA REFERENCE
Governance a. Board Oversight
b. Management’s RoleDescribe the Board’s oversight of climate-
related risks and opportunities
Describe management’s role in assessing 
and managing climate-related risks and 
opportunities.2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C1.  
Governance - C1.1 Pg. 4
2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C1.   
Governance - C1.2 Pg. 5-8
Strategy  a. Risks and Opportunities
b. Impact on Organization
c. Resilience of StrategyDescribe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organization has 
identified over the short, medium, and 
long term.
Describe the impact of climate-related  
risks and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, strategy,  
and financial planning.
Describe the potential impact of different 
scenarios, including a 2°C scenario, on 
the organization’s businesses, strategy, 
and financial planning.2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2. Risk & 
opportunities - C2.2c Pg. 
10-13
2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2. Risk & 
opportunities - C2.3a Pg. 
14-30
We have not completed 
a scenario analysis at 
the time this report was 
published, but plan to 
complete one in FY21.
Risk Management a. Risk Assessment 
Processes
b. Risk Management 
Processes
c. Integration into Overall 
Risk ManagementDescribe the organization’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related 
risks.
Describe the organization’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks.
Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing, and managing climate-related 
risks are integrated into the organization’s 
overall risk management.2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2.2b Risk & 
opportunities - C2.2b Pg. 9
2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2. Risk & 
Opportunities - C2.2d Pg. 
13-14
2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C2. Risk & 
opportunities - C2.6 Pg. 
29-30
Metrics and 
Targetsa. Climate-Related Metrics
b. Scope 1,2,3 GHG 
Emissions
c. Climate Related TargetsDisclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities in line with its 
strategy and risk management process.
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions, and the related risks.
Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets.2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C5. Emissions 
methodology - C5.1 Pg. 
40-41
2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C6. Emissions 
data - C6.1 Pg. 41-59
2019 CDP Climate Change 
Response : C4. Targets and 
performance - C4.1b Pg. 
33-3486
NVIDIA 2020 CSR REPORTABOUT THIS REPORTFor
Text Anchor
© 2020 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA and the NVIDIA logo are registered trademarks of 
NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and other countries.The NVIDIA FY20 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report covers our 
economic, environmental, social, and 
governance performance for the fiscal 
year ended January 26, 2020. 
This report adheres to the GRI Standards:  
Core  option. We’ve reported through 
GRI publicly since 2010. New this year we  
will disclose through the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board  and Task  
Force for Climate-Related Disclosures .  
We continue to align our social impact 
activities with the United Nations’ 
Sustainable Development Goals . 
Previous CSR reports:
FY19  
FY18  
FY17  
FY16  
 
We determined the content for this 
report based on conversations among 
management and engagement with 
several stakeholders. No significant 
changes have occurred during the 
reporting period with regard to the 
scope, boundary, or measurement 
methods applied in this report.  Distributing This Report
We promote the availability of our 
report through:
 >Targ eted communications to 
employees and executives.
 > Outreach to stakeholders and 
reporting organizations.
 > Individual outreach to shareholder 
groups that make inquiries 
throughout the year.
 > Our social media channels, which 
reach approximately 26 million 
individuals.
We welcome feedback on this report 
and our performance. Please send 
comments and suggestions to  
globalcitizenship @nvidia.com  or to:
NVIDIA  
Corporate Responsibility  
2530 Zanker Rd.  
San Jose, CA 95131The information contained in this report 
is accurate as of approximately June 10,  
2020, unless a different date is used in  
this report. The information is subject  
to change, and NVIDIA will not necessarily  
disclose such changes. The information  
may be updated, amended, supplemented,  
or otherwise altered by subsequent 
reports or filings by NVIDIA.
Certain statements included or 
incorporated by reference in this report,  
other than statements or characterizations  
of historical fact, including, but not 
limited to, statements as to: our growth;  
our market opportunities; the 
performance, impact and benefits of 
our products and technologies; our 
strategies; our priorities, goals, and 
objectives; market trends; future 
forecasts; and other predictions and  
estimates are forward-looking 
statements and are based on our 
current expectations, estimates, and  
projections about our industry and our 
management’s beliefs and assumptions.  
We caution readers that these 
statements are merely predictions and 
are not guarantees of future results. 
Actual events may differ materially, 
perhaps adversely.
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, 
subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form  
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K,  
and other filings made with the Securities  
and Exchange Commission discuss 
some of the important risk factors that 
could contribute to differences between 
projections and outcomes, which could  
affect our business, operational results,  
and financial condition. Except as 
required by law, NVIDIA does not 
recognize any obligation to revise or  
update any forward-looking statements.