2018 UNGC 
COMMUNICATION 
ON PROGRESSELI LILLY AND COMPANYCONTENTS
PAGE 3  ABOUT LILLY AND ELANCO
PAGE 4  A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
PAGE 6  2018 RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS
PAGE 8  ABOUT THIS REPORT
PAGE 10  HUMAN RIGHTS
 UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED:
 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally  
  proclaimed human rights; and
 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
PAGE 29  LABOR
 UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED:
 3  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective  
  recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
 4  the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor;
 5  the effective abolition of child labor; and
 6  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
PAGE 39  HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT
 UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED:
 7  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
 8  undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
 9  encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
PAGE 60  ANTI-CORRUPTION
 UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED:
 10  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion  
  and bribery.INTRO   |  PAGE 3Elanco Animal Health Incorporated (NYSE: ELAN) is a global animal health company that develops products and knowledge 
services to prevent and treat disease in food animals and pets in more than 90 countries. With a 64-year heritage, we 
rigorously innovate to improve the health of animals and benefit our customers, while fostering an inclusive, cause-driven 
culture for more than 5,800 employees. At Elanco, we understand the powerful role healthy animals play in making life 
better. As pets increasingly become important parts of our families, the need to help them live longer, healthier, higher 
quality lives increase as well. As the global population grows, so too will the need to meet the demand for safe, affordable 
food for all. At Elanco, we’re driven by our vision of food and companionship enriching life–all to advance the health of 
animals, people, and the planet. Learn more at www.elanco.com . Until September 20, 2018 Elanco was a subsidiary of Eli 
Lilly and Company. Lilly is a global healthcare leader that unites caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people 
around the world. We were founded more than a century ago by a man committed to creating high-quality medicines that 
meet real needs, and today we remain true to that mission in all our work. Across the globe, Lilly employees work to discover 
and bring life-changing medicines to those who need them, improve the understanding and management of disease, and 
give back to communities through philanthropy and volunteerism. To learn more about Lilly, please visit us at www.lilly.com  
and http://newsroom.lilly.com/social-channels .ABOUT ELI LILLY  
AND COMPANY
ABOUT ELANCO  
ANIMAL HEALTHINTRO   |  PAGE 4A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
DELIVERING VALUE AND REDUCING COSTS
In 2018, the company separated our Elanco Animal 
Health subsidiary with an initial public offering and 
divestiture. This transaction allows Lilly to focus 
exclusively on human medicines—discovering, 
developing, manufacturing and reaching patients with 
new therapies for serious health conditions. In the past 
five years, we have launched 10 new medicines—halfway 
to our goal of 20 new molecules by 2023. The initially 
promising results of one of those medicines, Lartruvo 
for soft tissue sarcoma, were not confirmed in later 
clinical trials—a risk inherent in the scientific process. 
So Lilly worked quickly with regulators to develop a plan 
to withdraw Lartruvo from the market while allowing 
current patients to continue receiving therapy. 
Growing numbers of people are benefiting from Lilly’s 
medicines around the world. Still, we recognize that the 
cost of medicines is a concern for many, and sometimes 
an obstacle to people getting treatment. That’s why Lilly 
has a long-standing policy of not seeking or enforcing 
patents for medicines in any of the “least developed 
countries,” as defined by the United Nations. It’s also 
why we’re working with others in the U.S. healthcare 
system to make sure patients can get the medicines 
they need—at reasonable out-of-pocket costs and with 
pricing information they can understand. In 2018, Lilly opened the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center to assist 
people who need help paying for their Lilly insulin. We 
also launched Insulin Lispro, an authorized generic 
insulin, at a list price 50 percent lower than our branded 
insulin, Humalog. We know there’s more to do, and we 
are committed to working with others across healthcare 
systems to advocate for policies that expand access to 
medicines while rewarding innovation.
FOSTERING DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
To support our strategy of innovation, we must have a 
culture of diversity and inclusion (D&I)—one in which 
everyone can bring diverse ideas, perspectives, and 
experiences to bear in the pursuit of our purpose. 
We’ve taken a research-based approach—modeled 
after the research we conduct to understand our own 
patient populations. This research has helped us better 
understand the experiences, unmet needs, and career 
tensions of our employees, especially women and 
minorities, and informed companywide D&I programs. 
From the end of 2016 to the end of 2018, we increased 
the number of women in management globally to 42 
percent, our initial aspirational goal. We also increased 
racial and ethnic minority representation in management 
in the United States, to 21 percent of total management. 
This year, we set even higher aspirational goals for 
women and minorities in management. In early 2019, 
DAVID A. RICKS
Chairman and CEO Dear Stakeholders,
At Eli Lilly and Company, our purpose is to unite caring 
with discovery to create medicines that make life better 
for people around the world. Core to our purpose is our 
commitment to aid human suffering—independent of an 
individual’s or nation’s economic status—and to conduct 
our business in a responsible way for the long term. As 
a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 
2009, Lilly is pleased to reaffirm our commitment to the 
responsible business principles represented by the Global 
Compact, as well as our commitment to work toward the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals .INTRO   |  PAGE 5we were proud that our research-based approach was 
recognized with the prestigious Catalyst Award—one of 
four companies to receive this honor this year—reflecting 
our D&I focus.
ADVANCING GLOBAL AND LOCAL HEALTH  
Advances in healthcare have helped billions live longer 
lives. But in too many places around the world, due to 
insufficient development of healthcare systems, these 
innovations are out of reach. Lilly has set a goal to 
create new access to quality health care in resource-
limited settings for 30 million people every year by 
2030. We call this Lilly 30x30. It focuses on three areas: 
1) Partnerships—working with others to strengthen 
health systems; 2) Programs—enhancing access to 
Lilly medicines; and 3) Pipeline—finding molecules 
for diseases that disproportionately affect people in 
resource-limited settings. 
In 2018, Lilly continued to expand our partnership with 
AMPATH, a medical consortium making an incredible 
difference in the lives of patients in western Kenya who 
are in desperate need. Since 2002, we have committed 
nearly $150 million in product donations to AMPATH, 
helping to dramatically reduce what were once frequent 
shortages of medicine. The Lilly Foundation has 
committed an additional $3.5 million to help AMPATH 
expand its breast and cervical cancer screenings—
including mobile outreach for rural areas. As of 
September 2018, they had reached 35,000 people.
In 2018, building on what we’ve learned from global 
health programs, we gathered with local partners to 
launch a program addressing health disparities in 
our own hometown of Indianapolis. The result is a neighborhood-based approach designed to help address 
the high incidence of diabetes in three Indianapolis 
communities—where life expectancy can be 14 years 
lower than in neighborhoods just 10 miles away. The 
$7 million, five-year pilot program features newly hired 
community healthcare workers who help identify people 
with diabetes and connect them with quality care.
In the next few years, we will focus even more on the 
areas of programs and pipeline to increase our impact. 
MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Lilly is committed to continually reducing our 
environmental footprint and to publicly reporting 
progress toward our goals. In 2018, Lilly received a CDP 
(formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) score of A- on 
climate change, which is considered leadership level, 
and we received a B on water stewardship. As of the 
end of 2018, we met and even exceeded two of our 2020 
goals: achieving a 20 percent improvement in our waste 
efficiency, and a 15 percent reduction in phosphorous 
emissions in wastewater.
By 2020, we will transition 90 percent of our endotoxin 
tests—a mandatory quality test for pharmaceuticals 
and medical devices—from a process which relies on 
bleeding horseshoe crabs, to a synthetic compound. This 
new method, which Lilly helped to validate, is equally 
effective, more efficient, and cost-effective—and it 
doesn’t require harvesting live animals. Transitioning 
our testing will lessen our impacts on the wild crab 
population, reducing our dependence on an increasingly 
at-risk species that is a vital part of many food webs, 
including for endangered and threatened birds.   
DAVID A. RICKS
Chairman and CEOEvery day, Lilly’s team of 33,000 employees strives to operate our company according to our values 
of integrity, excellence, and respect for people. While pleased with our performance, we are not 
satisfied. We are compelled to improve . Thank you for your interest in our company.INTRO   |  PAGE 6Lilly has a long, proud heritage of strengthening the communities where we work and live. We do this through giving, 
volunteering, and focusing on the issues that tie back to our business: health and education. We actively encourage 
our employees to volunteer—in their backyards as well as around the world—and give back in ways that are personally 
meaningful to them.2018 CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS
IMPROVING LIVES AND STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES
Connecting Hearts Abroad 
More than 1,000 Lilly employees have volunteered 
through Connecting Hearts Abroad, our global service 
program. Working on health and community projects 
across Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America, 
volunteers return to Lilly with insights that help us 
become a better, more globally aware company. 
Global Day of Service 
In 2018, we celebrated our 11th annual Lilly Global Day 
of Service, on which Lilly and Elanco employees help 
neighbors and communities around the world. Since 
the program launched, employees in over 65 countries 
have given more than 1 million hours and created a 
lasting legacy by completing thousands of projects—
from assembling cancer-care packages for patients to 
beautifying neighborhoods by planting thousands of trees. 
United Way 
In 2018, Lilly and United Way celebrated a 100-year 
relationship dating back to 1918. To date, Lilly has 
raised more than $300 million for United Way. In 2018, 
contributions from Lilly U.S. employees and retirees, 
plus a matching gift from the Eli Lilly and Company 
Foundation totaled $13.3 million.TOTAL COMMITTED 
TO GLOBAL HEALTH 
PROGRAMMING 2017-2022 $90M
2018 TOTAL PRODUCT DONATIONS $1.3B
2018 TOTAL CASH DONATIONS
*including $26M from the Lilly Foundation $30.3M*CONTRIBUTIONS AT A GLANCE
INSULIN VIALS DONATED 
AS OF 2018 TO THE LIFE 
FOR A CHILD PROGRAM1.8M
2018 TOTAL UNITED  
WAY CONTRIBUTIONS 
*including $6.7M from the Lilly Foundation$13.3M
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEE 
VOLUNTEER HOURS 
THROUGH LILLY GLOBAL DAY 
OF SERVICE SINCE 20081.1MINTRO   |  PAGE 7The Lilly Foundation works to improve the lives of 
those who lack resources, including supporting and 
championing efforts in our home state of Indiana to 
strengthen public education focusing on early childhood 
education, K-12, and STEM subjects (science, technology, 
engineering, and math). The Foundation backs results-
oriented programs and organizations with the proven 
ability to drive community impact, including:
• Indianapolis Public Schools (IPS),  which empowers  
 and educates students with diverse backgrounds to  
 think critically, creatively, and responsibly to pursue  
 their dreams with purpose. The Lilly Foundation  
 gave $300,000 in grant funding to support  
 professional development, technology investment,  
 and youth employment at IPS’s Advanced  
 Manufacturing, Engineering and Logistics Academy  
 and Construction, Engineering and Design Academy;
• The Mind Trust,  which strives to provide every  
 Indianapolis student access to a high-quality school  
 that will improve the lives of the students served and  
 create new possibilities for the communities where  
 they are located;• Teach For America,  which advances educational  
 excellence and equity in the United States through  
 a network of remarkable and diverse leaders working  
 to expand opportunity and access for all children;
• Junior Achievement,  which inspires and prepares  
 young people to succeed in a changing global  
 economy. The Lilly Foundation provides support for  
 the organization and its JA JobSpark program; and,
• Center for Leadership Development,  which fosters  
 the advancement of minority youth in Central Indiana  
 as future professional, business, and community  
 leaders by providing experiences that encourage  
 personal development and education attainment. RECOGNITION FOR RESPONSIBILITY: 2018–2019
CATALYST
2019 Catalyst Award Recipient
ETHISPHERE
World’s Most Ethical Companies,  
2017, 2018, and 2019  
THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY  
AND INCLUSION INDEX
(No. 17) 
WORKING MOTHER MAGAZINE
100 Best Companies for Working Mothers,  
24 Consecutive YearsDIVERSITY INC. 
2018 Top 50 Companies for Diversity (No. 5)
HUMAN RIGHTS  
CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION
Corporate Equality Index—Perfect Score
JUST CAPITAL
America’s Most Just Companies (No. 58)
WOMEN’S CHOICE AWARD
Best Places to Work for Millennials and Women
Education—Investing in the Next GenerationINTRO   |  PAGE 8This report represents our Communication on Progress 
for 2018 in implementing the principles of the United 
Nations Global Compact. 
Data and other updates contained in this report are 
focused on the 2018 calendar year and include global 
operations, unless otherwise noted. We also discuss 
data and trends from previous years, where relevant, 
and include some significant events and initiatives that 
occurred in the first half of 2019. This report does not 
include joint ventures, partially owned subsidiaries, or 
outsourced operations.  
In September 2018, Eli Lilly and Company, launched 
an initial public offering (IPO) of Elanco Animal Health 
Incorporated (NYSE: ELAN), thereby making it an 
independently traded company. Elanco, previously a 
division of Lilly, is a global animal health company that 
develops products and knowledge services to prevent 
and treat disease in food animals and pets. This report 
includes data from Elanco through 2018, including the 
period immediately following its IPO. 
ERM Certification and Verification Services provided 
independent, third-party verification on selected 
environmental data and progress against selected 2020 
goals as described in the assurance statement .
Lilly follows structured processes to collect, 
evaluate, and calculate the data we report, to ensure 
appropriateness and accuracy. We consider external 
standards in deciding what data to collect and report. For 
example, following guidance from the World Resources 
Institute, we report progress toward greenhouse gas 
emissions goals on an adjusted basis accounting for 
mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures as appropriate, 
to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. Our 
global Health, Safety, and Environment management 
system is periodically reviewed by an independent, 
accredited auditor to ensure conformance with the 
American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care® 
Management System requirements.We welcome feedback on this content, as it helps us to 
prepare future reports.
MOHAMED OSMAN MOHAMED   
Corporate Responsibility, Eli Lilly and Company  
Email:  mmohamed@lilly.com  
Phone:   +1.317.430.8123 ABOUT THIS REPORTINTRO   |  PAGE 9As a member of the UN Global Compact, Eli Lilly supports the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 
works to advance these goals within our sphere of influence. We are inspired by the global vision that the SDGs represent—
and we are committed to doing our part to contribute. You can learn more about our efforts towards the SDGs in these areas 
of the report.
LABOR ANTI-CORRUPTION
HUMAN RIGHTS
HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT
HUMAN RIGHTS
INTRO  |  HUMAN RIGHTS  |  LABOR   |  HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT  |  ANTI-CORRUPTIONLilly supports the UN Global Compact’s principles on 
respecting internationally proclaimed human rights. As a 
global pharmaceutical company, our activities cut across a 
broad range of societal issues: activities such as ensuring 
the safety and availability of our medicines, promoting 
global health, and enhancing access to medicines for 
those who have trouble affording them. In this section, 
we discuss our work in the following areas related to 
human rights: bioethics; the availability and safety of our 
products; sourcing in our supply chain; the affordability 
of medications; and our global health initiatives. Further 
information on our support for labor standards can be 
found in the Labor section of this report.HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 11Lilly has a longstanding commitment to bioethics—which focuses on the ethics of health care, biomedical research, and 
biomedical public policy—as an integral component of corporate integrity in the pharmaceutical industry. In 1999, Lilly 
became one of the first pharmaceutical companies to establish a standing bioethics committee to systematically identify, 
evaluate, and communicate bioethics issues, and in 2008 created a bioethics program with dedicated full-time staff. 
We embrace a comprehensive approach to bioethics, providing a variety of resources and educational offerings to help 
employees navigate ethical scenarios and apply bioethics principles in their daily work.BIOETHICS
Governance of  
Bioethics at Lilly 
Consolidating the company’s ethics efforts under one tent, 
in early 2018 Lilly’s bioethics program  became housed 
within the Global Ethics and Compliance organization, 
reporting to the chief ethics and compliance officer. This 
move increases the independence of the bioethics function 
overall and allows the bioethics team broader focus 
across all aspects of Lilly’s operations—from research and 
development to commercialization activities. Bioethics 
team members include full-time, dedicated staff with 
pharmaceutical industry expertise as well as specialized 
training in bioethics. These individuals serve as valuable 
internal resources for the company, and are responsible 
for the program’s development, deliverables, and 
oversight. A cross-functional bioethics advisory committee 
also includes external expertise in bioethics.
Moving Lilly’s bioethics program within our Global Ethics and Compliance organization will 
continue to elevate this important work and enable greater engagement —beyond just clinical 
research—with all facets of our enterprise. This move is part of our ongoing efforts to reflect 
our commitment to integrity and to engrain ethical decision-making into every phase of our 
work . In doing so, we also become a more efficient operation, helping our colleagues access 
the tools they need to make better, faster decisions across a range of business issues facing 
our industry. ” 
- MELISSA BARNES  |   SVP, ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND CHIEF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER“
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM
PRIVACY 
PROGRAMBIOETHICS 
PROGRAMANTI-
CORRUPTION 
PROGRAMENTERPRISE RISK  
MANAGEMENT AND GLOBAL  
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCEHUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 12Protecting Research Subjects’ 
Rights in Clinical Trials
Lilly is committed to protecting the rights and well-being 
of research subjects and patients who use our medicines. 
Lilly applies a single global standard to the conduct of 
medical trials involving human subjects. This standard 
is based on well-respected ethics guidance and other 
requirements including: 
• The World Medical Association’s Declaration  
 of Helsinki ; 
• The Council for International Organizations of  
 Medical Sciences’ International Ethical Guidelines  
 for Biomedical Research Involving Human Subjects ; 
• The International Conference on Harmonisation’s  
 Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (E6) ; 
• The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of  
 America’s Principles on Conduct of Clinical Trials ; and, 
• Applicable laws and regulations of the country or  
 countries in which a study is conducted. 
Lilly’s commitment to protecting the rights of research 
subjects is articulated in two company guidance 
documents— Principles of Medical Research and Bioethics 
Framework for Human Biomedical Research—and upheld 
through company policies, standards, and procedures.
LILLY’S PRINCIPLES OF MEDICAL RESEARCH 
The Principles of Medical Research  specify Lilly’s 
standard for conducting, funding, and communicating 
results from its medical research. For more information 
on how Lilly shares information from clinical trials, see 
the Transparency  section of this report. 
LILLY’S BIOETHICS FRAMEWORK  
Lilly’s Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical 
Research  provides a bioethics foundation for the 
company’s biomedical research so that it is aligned 
with broadly accepted ethics principles and Lilly’s core 
values. The framework consists of four basic principles 
and 13 essential elements for conducting ethical human 
biomedical research and sits within the context of Lilly’s 
broader company purpose and values. It specifies and 
compiles Lilly’s bioethical responsibilities to multiple 
stakeholders. The framework informs the development of 
bioethics positions on topics important to pharmaceutical 
research and development, and it informs advice that the 
bioethics committee provides.  
 FOSTERING INDUSTRY COLLABORATION IN BIOETHICS 
In addition to publishing Lilly’s Bioethics Framework 
for Human Biomedical Research , Lilly was a founding 
member and driving force behind the establishment of 
the Biopharmaceutical Industry Bioethics (BIB) Forum. 
Founded in 2016, the BIB Forum promotes collegial, 
non-competitive discussions regarding the application of 
bioethics concepts in the biopharmaceutical industry and 
sharing of best practices.  
Lilly’s Positions on  
Current and Emerging 
Bioethics Issues  
Lilly has developed position statements  on bioethics 
issues such as stem cell research, pediatric medicine, 
and multinational clinical trials, among others. 
Bioethics Consultations  
Since 1999, Lilly’s bioethics committee has offered 
an internal consulting service, providing a forum for 
employees to seek advice regarding bioethics and 
research ethics issues. Using the Bioethics Framework 
and bioethics positions, this service increases awareness 
about bioethics, empowers employees to raise concerns, 
and helps them reason through challenging issues.
LILLY’S COMPANY PURPOSE   
AND VALUES
BIOETHICS FRAMEWORK FOR HUMAN 
BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH
Basic Bioethics Principles
Essential Elements for Ethical Biomedical ResearchRespect for persons
BeneficenceNon-maleficence
Justice
Scientific validity
Social value
Equitable selection  
of countries/communities  
and participants
Relationships with 
investigators and study sites
Reasonable benefit-risk profile
Independent ethics review
Incentives for research 
participantsInformed consent
Fair treatment of  
research participants
Protection of privacy  
and confidentiality
Fair access to  
post-study benefits
Public transparency
Stakeholder engagementHUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 13We work tirelessly to make our medications safe and effective—from the early stages of design and drug development —
through ongoing monitoring and understanding of the patient experience once a medication is on the market. We recognize 
that taking the right medication at the right time is a critical piece of a person’s overall health. Therefore, ensuring our 
products are available wherever and whenever patients need them is one of our top priorities.PATIENT SAFETY AND 
PRODUCT AVAILABILITY
Global Patient Safety 
Beginning with the discovery of a potential new medicine, 
Lilly’s goal is to ensure that the benefits and risks of the 
medicines we market are continuously monitored and 
well understood by regulators, healthcare providers, 
and patients. Lilly’s Global Patient Safety  organization—
consisting of more than 300 physicians, pharmacists, 
nurses, and other healthcare professionals—is dedicated 
to the continuous collection, monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of safety information. Even after medications 
are approved for general use, Lilly continues to collect 
adverse event reports from around the world. Lilly 
enters this information into a company-specific adverse 
event  database to further evaluate the safety of our 
medications. New safety findings and emerging concerns 
are shared openly with regulators and healthcare 
providers to appropriately manage risks associated with 
the use of our medicines.
Ensuring Product Availability
The mission of Lilly’s global manufacturing team is 
to provide a reliable supply of high-quality medicines. 
Because Lilly manufactures medicines that people rely 
upon and that can be critical for health, we know that 
we have a responsibility to safeguard both the materials 
needed to manufacture these medicines and the supply 
chain logistics that help to ensure their availability. 
Our manufacturing policy committee oversees the 
maintenance of Lilly’s inventory of essential raw 
materials. Before they enter the Lilly system, our raw material and component suppliers are evaluated for 
technical competence, and the ability to provide high-
quality, efficacious, and cost-effective raw materials to 
Lilly. More information can be found in the Supply Chain  
section of this report.
As an additional safeguard, we have mitigation plans 
in place for our drug product components, including 
materials critical to manufacturing finished drug 
products. Continuous improvement initiatives in our 
manufacturing, packaging, and distribution capabilities 
help to safeguard the supply of Lilly medicines, and allow 
us to provide safe and effective finished drug products 
to patients and healthcare providers. The introduction of 
product serialization, first rolled out in the United States 
in 2018, with ongoing implementation in other countries 
to follow, adds an additional level of security to our 
distributed products.HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 14At Lilly, our efforts to ensure the safety and integrity of our products begin with the procurement of materials and extend 
throughout the production process. This includes our interactions to promote strong health, safety, and environment (HSE) 
practices with suppliers who provide us materials for research and development, as well as with the contract manufacturers 
who help make our medicines and other pharmaceutical products. It extends to our work to stem the tide of counterfeit 
medicines and to ensure we comply with governmental efforts around conflict minerals. In addition to the topics we discuss 
in this section, more information on our work around HSE in our supply chain can be found in the HSE  section of this report.SUPPLY CHAIN
Preventing  
Counterfeit Medicines  
Counterfeit medicines have been found in all therapeutic 
areas in every region of the world. Their impact is 
wide-reaching and potentially deadly, both due to 
toxic substances sometimes found in the counterfeit 
medicines, and because they undermine a patient’s 
confidence in legitimate medicines and the credibility of 
healthcare providers. Lilly’s anti-counterfeiting strategy  
is composed of three key objectives:   
• Securing the integrity of Lilly medicines through the  
 legitimate supply channels; 
• Deterring major counterfeiters of Lilly medicines  
 through targeted investigations, internet monitoring,  
 legal actions; and, 
• Partnering with governments, non-governmental  
 organizations, and trade associations to raise  
 awareness, and to strengthen, enact, and enforce  
 anti-counterfeiting laws.
WORKING TO DETER COUNTERFEITERS ONLINE  
AND IN THE FIELD 
Patient safety is the foundation of Lilly’s global anti-
counterfeiting efforts, and we are engaged in efforts to 
combat counterfeiters. We are a founder and member 
of the Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies , a global 
coalition of stakeholders with an interest in protecting 
patient safety and ensuring patients have access to safe 
and legitimate online pharmacies. Lilly advocates for 
protections for patients from the growing number of 
illegitimate and unsafe online drug sellers. Lilly also supports the dedicated domain name “dot-pharmacy,” 
an initiative of the National Association of Boards of 
Pharmacy that helps patients distinguish safe and legal 
online pharmacies. Lilly cooperates with customs, police, 
and other law enforcement officials around the world to 
investigate and prosecute those who make and distribute 
counterfeit Lilly medicines without regard to the law or 
patient safety.
SERIALIZATION
Serialization  is the unique identification of individual 
packs of medicines to ensure the security of the 
legitimate supply chain. One of Lilly’s major legislative 
efforts has been to advocate for the establishment of a 
uniform standard for coding, serializing, and tracking 
pharmaceutical products. Lilly has made considerable 
investments in its packaging operations, distribution 
centers, and IT infrastructure to support this initiative, 
including new technology, which impacts all of our 
packaging lines around the world. These efforts help to 
ensure that doctors, pharmacists, and patients can be 
confident in the medicines they prescribe, dispense,  
and receive.
Lilly believes that it is imperative that legislative 
efforts and policies around serialization and product 
traceability follow global standards. Non-standard 
requirements not only increase the implementation costs 
for manufacturers and trading partners, but also fail to 
adequately prevent counterfeit products from entering 
the legitimate supply chain, increasing the potential 
for patient harm. Lilly actively partners with industry 
groups such as The Alliance for Global Pharmaceutical 
Serialization (RxGPS), global standards bodies such as 
GS1, country level groups and think tanks, and regulators HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 15in many markets around the world to advocate for global 
standards to ensure a harmonized approach to product 
traceability initiatives. 
Lilly’s advocacy efforts have created positive and 
tangible outcomes that we believe enhance patient 
safety. We played a leadership role in China on 
this issue, influencing a shift from a nonstandard 
product traceability requirement to a policy that will 
accommodate global standards. In Malaysia and India, 
Lilly is investing in advocacy to educate and inform 
regulatory authorities on the importance of adhering to 
global standards as they evaluate upcoming legislation. 
Conflict Minerals  
Lilly is concerned with the variety of human rights 
violations that occur throughout the world. We are 
aware that the ongoing conflict in the Democratic 
Republic of Congo (DRC) and the surrounding countries 
is understood to be financed, in part, by the mining and 
trade of certain minerals, including tungsten, tantalum, 
tin, and gold. We are committed to making every effort to 
ensure we understand our supply chain and the potential 
upstream impacts of our supply and purchasing decisions 
as they relate to the minerals at issue.
From 2014 to 2019, Lilly filed annual reports with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating 
to the conflict minerals rule. As a part of that reporting 
process, we examine the raw material content of all of 
our global commercial products and seek to identify the 
origin and source of these raw materials. Our goal is to 
develop a better understanding of the supply chain and to 
avoid the inadvertent support of businesses associated 
with human rights violations.
Lilly’s expectation is that our suppliers will source 
their materials responsibly and abstain from procuring 
materials from areas or sources that might promote 
conflict in the DRC and that our suppliers conduct their 
own due diligence regarding the source of any materials 
they provide to us in order to ensure those materials 
are conflict-free. We filed our latest conflict minerals 
disclosure documents with the SEC in May 2019. 
Lilly is committed to continue to understand the origin of 
these materials and will take appropriate action to avoid 
the inadvertent support of businesses associated with 
human rights violations. HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 16Our efforts to bring innovative medicines to patients 
may take different paths depending on the healthcare 
system unique to a specific region of the world. However, 
we work to ensure our strategy fits with the needs and 
expectations of a number of different stakeholders, 
in addition to patients. As we evaluate the various 
stakeholder perspectives, Lilly may take into account the 
following considerations:
• Health system needs and constraints (e.g., advanced  
 technology, quality metrics, budget constraints) 
• Patient and caregiver needs (e.g., education and  
 support tools)
• Regulatory requirements (e.g., the need for ongoing  
 post-market safety or outcomes studies)
• Public policy limitations (e.g., price controls) and  
 enablers (e.g., additional research incentives)
Lilly works across the healthcare system to find solutions 
that make medicines more accessible. This includes 
innovating beyond the medicines we produce. The future 
of the healthcare system depends on how well it works 
for patients. Lilly remains committed to supporting a 
system that enables people to live longer, healthier, more 
active lives.Pricing Around the World   
Lilly sells medicines in approximately 125 countries 
around the world. Each country values medications 
and innovation differently and must balance competing 
demands for limited resources. This includes other 
healthcare products and services, as well as meeting 
other social needs such as education or infrastructure. 
At Lilly, we consider country-specific conditions when 
pricing medicines on a market-by-market basis, to help 
ensure patients have affordable access to the innovative 
medications we develop. We support public policies to 
meet this same end. We strive to price our medicines 
to enable affordable access for appropriate patients, 
reflecting the value provided to patients, providers, 
payers, caregivers, the health system, and society as a 
whole. We define value in clinical, human, and economic 
terms, and we base our assessment on the results 
of clinical trials, economic analysis, projected and 
measured health outcomes, as well as market research.
Lilly is exploring new ways to achieve the right level of 
pricing in different markets and we advocate for policy 
changes that help increase access to medicines. Value-
based and outcomes-based reimbursement models are 
examples of payment initiatives that offer the ability to Lilly supports expanded access to our medicines around the world—through the policies we promote; in the actions we take 
to help consumers, communities, and our employees; and by providing greater transparency about how we price  
our products.
How we price our medicines is not a decision we take lightly or one we make in isolation. We consider how a patient can 
access the medicine, and the impact that access may have across the varying and unique healthcare systems around the 
world. We seek to strike the balance between access and sustaining an industry that can continue to build upon the life-
changing treatments it has discovered for some of our most serious diseases. This is one of the most important decisions we 
make as a company. ACCESS TO MEDICINES, 
AFFORDABILITY,  
AND TRANSPARENCY HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 17Pricing in the United States   
Lilly continues to work to expand access to medicines 
in the U.S. healthcare system—by helping consumers, 
communities, and our employees; by providing greater 
transparency about how our products are priced; and 
through the policies we promote.
Pricing our medicines is one of the most important 
decisions we make as a company. We strike a balance 
between access and affordability for patients while  
sustaining investments in life-changing treatments for 
some of today’s most serious diseases. We consider:Lilly sets a list price for our medicines. To enable patient 
access, Lilly pays rebates and other discounts to payers 
and other supply chain entities. The final amount that 
Lilly ultimately realizes after paying these rebates and 
discounts is sometimes called the net price.
Across our U.S. product portfolio, Lilly’s average net 
price after rebates and discounts—the final amount we 
receive—has fallen from 59 percent in 2014 to 46 percent 
in 2018. The amount of Lilly’s rebates and discounts 
continues to increase through a combination of factors—
including increased market competition, pharmacy 
benefit managers’ (PBMs’) increased negotiation 
leverage, and rising mandatory government discounts. 
However, changes in insurance design and the trend 
toward greater consumer cost-sharing (through high-
deductible plans and co-insurance) means a growing 
number of patients are exposed to medicines’ full retail 
price at the pharmacy.The unmet needs that medicines can fulfill for 
patients and caregivers, and how people can 
affordably access the treatment
The benefits of our medicine compared to 
alternative medicines, where our medicine fits in 
treating conditions, and existing contracts between 
payers and our competitors
Such as health system changes and policy guidelines The costs of research, development, manufacturing, 
and support services for customers; business 
trends and other economic factors; as well as the 
medicine’s potential market size, patent life, and 
place within our larger portfolio of medicinesCUSTOMER PERSPECTIVE
COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE
COMPANY CONSIDERATIONS
OTHER EXTERNAL FACTORSAVERAGE LILLY NET PRICE (AS A % OF LIST PRICE)  
AFTER DISCOUNTS ACROSS THE U.S. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO1
2018 2017 2016 2015 201459%
55%
50%
49%
46%deliver greater economic and health value to healthcare 
systems. When countries look at health costs and related 
outcomes holistically, rather than in budget silos, it is 
clear that medications deliver substantial benefits in both 
human and economic terms.
As a global company, we are particularly aware of 
the economic circumstances in many developing 
countries that can make access to medicines difficult. 
In response, Lilly has developed alternative business 
models, recognizing that the poorest nations should pay less than wealthy nations. Lilly also supports efforts to 
decrease the final price of medicines to patients, such 
as minimizing taxes of all types and limiting markups 
applied in the supply chain. In addition, Lilly has a long-
standing policy of not seeking or enforcing patents for 
medicines in any of the least developed countries, as 
defined by the United Nations.HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 18COMPARISON OF LILLY LIST AND NET PRICE CHANGES FOR U.S. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO3 (% change versus the prior year)
List Price4
Net Price5
2014 2015 2016 2017 201811.8%
1.6%16.3%
9.4%14.0%
2.4%9.7%
6.0% 5.5%
-0.5%
1. The average net price percentage is calculated by dividing net sales, the amount Lilly receives after discounts (rebates and channel cost), by the annual gross sales (total sales 
at list price, prior to all discounts). 2. Average list and net price per patient per month is calculated based on average prescribed utilization of Humalog U100, the most broadly 
used presentation of Humalog (Source: IQVIA LAAD Data 2014-2018). In 2018, per IQVIA reported data, if taken as prescribed, the average diabetes patient using Humalog U100 
would have consumed approximately 19 MLs of insulin per month; this equates to approximately 2 vials or 6.4 Kwikpens. The actual utilization per patient per month may differ 
significantly depending on multiple factors, including prescription amounts and adherence behaviors. 3. U.S. Product Portfolio includes all human pharmaceutical products 
marketed in the United States for which Lilly is the holder of the new drug application (NDA). This represents approximately 95 percent of our total U.S. human pharmaceutical 
revenue. 4. List price represents the weighted average year-over-year change in the wholesale acquisition cost (WAC). 5. Net price represents weighted average year-over-year 
change in net price, which is WAC minus rebates, discounts, and channel costs.  
Humalog U100 is the most broadly used Lilly insulin product. The last list price 
increase for Humalog U100 was May 2017. The net price in the chart represents 
the average revenue Lilly realized per patient per month for Humalog U100 if 
taken as prescribed. Because of rebates and fees Lilly provides insurers and/or 
PBMs, increases in list prices do not always reflect increases in net prices. HUMALOG® (U100) AVERAGE LIST AND NET PRICE (USD)  
PER PATIENT PER MONTH, IF TAKEN AS PRESCRIBED2
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014$391
$147$159$480$539
$133 $135 $135$588$594Average List Price
 Average Net Price
Between 2014 and 2018, the list price for Humalog 
increased 51.9% while the average amount that Lilly 
received – the net price – declined by 8.1% .Lilly works with all parts of the healthcare system to 
find solutions that make medicines more accessible and 
affordable. We support improvements to the U.S. healthcare 
system that appropriately balance patient affordability, 
market-based competition, and rewarding innovation. We 
advocate for policy changes at the state and federal level to 
improve patient affordability, such as exempting treatments 
for chronic diseases from patient deductibles and passing 
through rebates to patients at the point of sale. 
In this spirit, Lilly implemented a number of solutions in 
2018 that support patients and our employees. These are 
positive steps, but we know there is more to do, and that is 
why we are committed to finding more solutions to lower the 
out-of-pocket costs for medicine at the pharmacy counter.
We don’t want anyone to have to pay full list price for their insulin, and many people who do 
will be able to pay significantly less by calling our helpline. Our goal is to ensure that people 
paying high out-of-pocket costs for Lilly insulins are matched with the best solution available 
to reduce their financial burden and help ensure they receive the treatment they need .” 
- MIKE MASON  |  SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CONNECTED CARE AND INSULINS“HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 19Our Commitment to  
Addressing Out-of-Pocket 
Costs in the United States    
Lilly recognizes that some people may struggle to pay for 
their medicines. We are committed to finding solutions 
to lower out-of-pocket costs and to implement other 
changes that can help the U.S. health system work better 
for patients. Below are some of the solutions we have 
unveiled recently: 
• In August 2018, Lilly opened the Lilly Diabetes  
 Solution Center  to assist people who need help paying  
 for their Lilly insulin, including those with lower  
 incomes, the uninsured, and people in the deductible  
 phase of a high-deductible insurance plan. More  
 than 10,000 people every month are getting help  
 lowering their out-of-pocket costs to affordable  
 levels through programs like these. Lilly also donates  
 to charitable organizations that provide free medicine,  
 including insulin, to patients meeting program  
 eligibility requirements. Over the last five years, Lilly  
 has donated more than 5.4 million insulin vials and  
 pens in the United States. 
• In March 2019, Lilly announced we will offer a  
 lower-priced version of our Humalog® insulin called  
 Insulin Lispro. This authorized generic version—which  
 is identical to Humalog—will be offered at a list price  
 50 percent lower than the current Humalog list price.  
 Insulin Lispro  could make insulin more affordable  
 for certain Americans asked to pay full retail price—or  
 a large percentage of the retail price—from their own  
 pockets. That may include people in high-deductible  
 health insurance plans, the uninsured, and seniors   that hit the coverage gap in their Medicare Part D  
 plans. For patients with health plans that prefer the  
 current system, Humalog will remain available. 
• Lilly is committed to increasing transparency around  
 the price of our medicines. In early 2019, television  
 advertisements for our medicines began directing  
 people to a new website, lillypricinginfo.com , that  
 provides the list price, average out-of-pocket costs,  
 and financial assistance information for the medicine  
 advertised. The website provides pricing information  
 for Trulicity®, Taltz®, Verzenio®, and Emgality®. In 2019,  
 we will begin providing information on this website for  
 our other medicines as well, whether they are  
 advertised on television or not.
• Lilly actively pursues value-based arrangements to  
 link the price of our medicine more directly to patient  
 outcomes. This approach can transform the healthcare  
 system to one that is about value versus the volume  
 of medicines purchased. We continue to advocate  
 for legislative and regulatory changes that support  
 this transition.
LEADING BY EXAMPLE: REDUCING COSTS AND IMPROVING HEALTH FOR EMPLOYEES AT LILLY
Employers can play a key role in patient access and affordability by offering benefits that help reduce employee medical costs. 
Lilly’s benefits align with this approach. 
Lilly applies prescription drug rebates at the point of sale to help our employees, retirees, and their families with out-of-pocket 
medicine costs. Last year, more than 11,000 Lilly employees, retirees, and their families benefited from these point-of-sale 
rebates, reducing their costs by approximately $3 million. We also use rebates to reduce the cost of medical coverage premiums. 
We exempt preventive and chronic disease medications from the deductible of our employees’ health plans to ensure there are 
no barriers for accessing medicines critical to their overall health and well-being. Starting in 2019, Lilly will begin providing our 
eligible employees and their family members living with diabetes a free connected glucose meter and related supplies, along 
with real-time support from trained diabetes educators.HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 20LILLY DIABETES SOLUTION CENTER HELPS WITH 
INSULIN AFFORDABILITY
In 2018, the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center —a new 
patient-focused helpline—opened to help identify ways 
patients can access the Lilly insulin they need. Staffed 
with representatives who take a personalized approach, 
the confidential helpline is available to residents 
throughout the United States and all U.S. territories, and 
features representatives who speak English, Spanish, and 
several other languages. People in the United States can 
reach the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center by calling 1-833-
808-1234. As of early 2019, more than 10,000 people each 
month received help through the center. In March 2019, 
Lilly announced a lower-priced version of Humalog called 
Insulin Lispro. This authorized generic version—which is 
identical to Humalog—is offered at a list price 50 percent 
lower than the current Humalog list price.
The center is offering a suite of solutions—some of which 
are being offered for the first time—that can significantly 
lower and cap high monthly out-of-pocket costs for some 
people who use Lilly insulins. Dedicated representatives 
will review the personal circumstances and identify 
options for people who pay near the full list price, such as 
the uninsured and people in the deductible phase of their 
high-deductible insurance plans, as well as potential 
solutions for people with lower incomes.  
 
 The following solutions are available through the helpline:
Point-of-Sale Savings 
Helpline representatives can advise callers who face the 
highest out-of-pocket costs at the pharmacy, such as 
people who are uninsured and people in the deductible 
phase of their high-deductible commercial insurance 
plans. The amount of cost reduction varies person-to-
person based upon individual circumstances. Out-of-
pocket costs for people who use traditional co-pay or 
co-insurance plans will continue to be set by their health 
insurer, and federal regulations prevent people who 
use Medicare Part D or other federal programs from 
obtaining additional point-of-sale savings.
Free Clinics
Lilly is donating insulin to three relief agencies—
Americares, Direct Relief, and Dispensary of Hope—to 
supply nearly 150 free clinics across the United States 
with Lilly insulin. Helpline representatives point people 
toward clinics that are most convenient to them and 
provide information about how to obtain insulin at those 
locations. Lilly is working with these relief agencies to 
identify as many clinics as possible that can adequately 
store and distribute insulin to people who need it.
Immediate Needs for Insulin
If someone has an immediate need for insulin, they can 
also call the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center to learn about 
immediate as well as longer-term options.HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 21Lilly 30 x30 
To accelerate our global health efforts, we established 
Lilly 30x30—a bold goal to increase access to quality 
health care in communities with limited resources for 
30 million people on an annual basis by 2030. Lilly 30x30 
is a companywide effort through which we use a mix 
of shared value and philanthropic approaches, often in 
collaboration with partners, to achieve our goal. 
FOCUS AREAS
Lilly 30x30 initiatives include activities across three key 
areas: partnerships, programs, and pipeline. In each of 
these three key areas, we are leading cross-functional 
teams to develop, pilot, and measure high-impact, 
scalable projects.
Partnerships - Building partnerships that strengthen 
health systems, increase access to medicines, and 
improve care
Programs - Strengthening existing programs and 
creating new ones that help improve access to  
Lilly medicines 
Pipeline - Discovering new medicines and exploring 
our current portfolio and shelved assets to find new 
indications for diseases that disproportionately affect 
people in resource-limited settings
30x30 GOVERNANCE
Lilly has formed a steering committee to manage 
progress toward the 30x30 goal. This cross-functional 
approach includes senior executives from Lilly Research 
Laboratories, finance, corporate affairs, ethics and compliance, and Lilly’s international business unit. This 
group of leaders ensure that individuals across the 
company are committed to long-term progress toward 
Lilly’s 30x30 goal. As a leading biopharmaceutical company, Lilly has an important role to play in improving access to quality health care 
for people living in communities with limited resources. We are committed to extending the Lilly promise of caring and 
discovery to millions more people around the world. Our global health efforts focus on people who aren’t typically reached 
by our traditional business operations. We use a mix of philanthropy and shared value-based approaches, and concentrate 
on diseases where we have deep technical expertise, including diabetes and cancer, partnering with leading experts and 
organizations to expand our reach.IMPROVING GLOBAL HEALTH 
Create
Create strategic mix of 
approaches ranging from novel business models to traditional philanthropyLeverage
Leverage Lilly capabilities, assets, and the passion of our employees
Partner
Partner with leading organizations on complex health challengesScale Up
Scale up and replicate sustainable solutions
30x30
Reach 30 million people in resource-limited settings on annual basis by 2030
OUR GLOBAL HEALTH APPROACHHUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 22Partnerships
Through strategic partnerships providing support and 
funding, Lilly and the Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, 
a separate, independent, nonprofit organization, work 
to advance government priorities, strengthen local 
healthcare systems, and improve access to care. Lilly 
uses its technology and expertise in collaborations with 
other organizations to find innovative, sustainable, and 
scalable approaches and solutions to pressing global 
health concerns, including diabetes and cancer.
GLOBAL HEALTH PARTNERSHIP
The Lilly Global Health Partnership advances more 
than 20 years of Lilly’s global health work that seeks to 
improve access and care. Under new leadership and with 
increased strategic focus in 2018, the work is centered 
on developing collaborations with a variety of partners 
to expand access to quality care for people living in 
resource-limited settings. Examples of how the Lilly Global Health Partnership 
is strengthening community-based and primary care 
services include: 
• Developing new, standardized protocols for diabetes  
 care in primary care settings; 
• Applying early learnings for NCDs into existing  
 and future efforts to strengthen health systems; and, 
• Implementing technology-based tools at the primary  
 care level to drive adherence to treatment and  
 reduce complications.
We use our Research, Report, and Advocate framework 
to measure and evaluate effectiveness of our partnership 
and reach the greatest number of people. Through  
this approach, we pilot new models of care, share  
the data and lessons learned to inform policy, and 
advocate for the scale-up and replication of proven,  
cost-effective solutions.
Lilly Global Health Partnership Focus Areas
Working with expert partners, the Lilly Global Health 
Partnership helps people living in limited-resource 
settings, with a focus on five countries.PARTNERSHIPS TO ACHIEVE THE  
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Lilly partners with local institutions around the world to 
pilot and extend the reach of effective health programs. 
Using the data that we collect, we advocate for the 
scaling up of interventions that show the greatest 
impact. We also advocate for the increased prioritization 
of non-communicable diseases (NCDs)—including 
cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, and mental 
health conditions—on the health agenda at the global 
and national levels. 
Lilly is a member of the Shared Value Initiative , a  
global community of organizations committed to driving 
the adoption and implementation of shared value 
strategies among leading companies, civil society,  
and government organizations.
Lilly is also a member of the  NCD Alliance , a global 
thought leader that brings the voice of communities and 
civil society to policy and practice related to NCDs. 
Lilly participates in Access Accelerated , a first-of-its-
kind, industry-driven collaboration focused on improving 
NCD care through new models of partnerships and multi-
stakeholder engagement. CHINA
KENYA
MEXICO
SOUTH 
AFRICA
U.S.Diabetes CancerHUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 23LILLY GLOBAL HEALTH PARTNERSHIP HIGHLIGHTS
PARTNER COUNTRY APPROACH EXPECTED IMPACT
CARLOS SLIM FOUNDATION MEXICO Developing a screening algorithm  
and treatment protocol for women  
with gestational diabetes at  
primary-care clinicsScreening algorithm that could reduce 
costs to the health system while retaining 
more women in care
CLINICAS DEL  
AZUCAR FOUNDATIONMEXICO Implementing a randomized control trial 
to test key drivers for keeping people in a 
cascade of care using a “one-stop shop” 
model for diabetesPolicy recommendation to help people 
with diabetes remain in primary care
ADVANCED ACCESS  
AND DELIVERY,  
INTERACTIVE RESEARCH  
AND DEVELOPMENT, AND  
SOUTH AFRICA MEDICAL 
RESEARCH COUNCILSOUTH 
AFRICACreating a multi-year project aimed at 
integrating diabetes and hypertension 
care with existing TB and HIV programsIntegrated care whereby patients with TB 
are screened for diabetes and linked to 
care; increased awareness about the risk 
factors associated with TB, diabetes,  
and hypertension
UNIVERSITY OF PRETORIA SOUTH 
AFRICATesting insulin initiation at primary  
care clinics in Pretoria to drive  
patient-centered care, incorporating  
a randomized control trial approachImproved access to care for diabetes 
patients close to their communities
AMPATH KENYA Bringing screening and care for  
diabetes and cervical cancer closer  
to the communities where affected 
people live, and increasing awareness 
through worker-led, community health  
campaigns in three counties, funded  
by the Lilly FoundationImproved early detection of cervical 
and breast cancer; improved care 
management at the community level and 
more effective use of scarce specialty-
treatment facilities; increased  
cancer awareness and screening within  
local communities
RICHARD M. FAIRBANK 
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC  
HEALTH AND MARION 
COUNTY PUBLIC  
HEALTH DEPARTMENT,  
AMONG OTHERSUNITED 
STATESUsing an approach common in global 
health programs outside the United 
States, in 2018 Lilly launched a pilot 
community outreach program that 
deploys community health workers with 
the goal of combating type 2 diabetes 
in three of Indianapolis’s most at-risk 
neighborhoods in partnership with local 
stakeholders and educatorsIncreased screening for those at high 
risk of diabetes, improved access 
and continuity of care for people with 
diabetes, and fostering a physical 
and social environment that supports 
diabetes control and preventionHUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 24AMPATH LILLY PARTNERSHIP GROWS TO REACH MORE PEOPLE
For more than 15 years, Lilly and the Lilly Foundation have partnered with AMPATH, an African medical consortium, 
providing support and funding to help AMPATH provide medicines and quality health care to people living in western Kenya. 
The growing partnership has played an important role in helping AMPATH build Kenya’s first system of sustainable care for 
the communities it serves—services that would otherwise be out of reach for the many people there who live on less than $1 
a day. In 2018, Lilly donated nearly $24 million in medicines to AMPATH.  
AMPATH, which stands for Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare, was created in 2001 in response to the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic in western Kenya. AMPATH is built on a partnership with Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and the Moi University 
School of Medicine in Eldoret, Kenya, and a consortium of North American academic health centers, led by  
Indiana University. 
AMPATH has continually expanded its successful approach in treating HIV/
AIDS (including diagnosis, treatment, and patient support) to more diseases, 
including diabetes, hypertension, and cancer. Today, AMPATH serves a 
population of more than 8 million people in Kenya at more than 500 clinical 
sites—from village health centers and dispensaries, to county hospitals, to 
the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret, where the organization 
is headquartered. To date, AMPATH has trained 2,600 Kenyan medical 
professional and community health workers, building local knowledge and 
service capacity. 
Support and funding from Lilly and the Lilly Foundation—along with 
numerous other organizations and individuals—are allowing AMPATH to 
screen, treat, and provide palliative care to more people than ever before. 
Part of this vital support is directed to AMPATH’s Oncology Institute, which 
opened in 2009 with a single physician and nurse offering services in a tent 
in an alley behind AMPATH’s main building. Public-private partnerships, 
including Lilly’s support with a $1 million training-and-education grant over 
four years, have allowed the institute to expand into a permanent facility, 
including 14 additional clinics and numerous oncology-trained clinicians.
In 2018, the institute received more than 10,000 patient visits. But demand 
far outstrips supply: the institute is one of only two cancer centers in Kenya, 
meaning that nearly half of the country’s 49 million people must rely on it for 
screening and care. To help address this gap, the Lilly Foundation committed 
an additional $3.5 million, from 2016 through 2021, to fund breast and 
cervical cancer screenings. The screenings include mobile outreach for rural 
areas, and had reached 35,000 people as of September 2018. 
Lilly also sends employees to volunteer with AMPATH through the company’s 
Connecting Hearts Abroad  program. Employees help support AMPATH’s 
mobile screening efforts that reach people like Nancy Odari . 
Since 2002, Lilly has committed nearly $150 million in product donations 
to AMPATH, helping to dramatically reduce what were once frequent 
shortages of medicines that resulted in people being turned away from 
clinics. Within the health system, AMPATH and Lilly have worked with the 
Kenyan government to develop innovative solutions to improve the overall 
donation process, minimize delays, and improve the availability of much-
needed medicines. This includes the creation of a novel system which helps 
ensure that donated medicines will be available on a sustainable basis after 
government supplies are depleted. The model was first used for Lilly insulin, and helped to improve the availability of the 
medicine from 30 percent to 90 percent in western Kenya. This subsidized, but incentivized, pharmacy model has since been 
expanded to include most essential medicines, with similarly strong results. 
NANCY ODARI
Cancer Survivor  
Eldoret, Kenya
NANCY’S PURPOSE
Pastor, former nurse, mother, and 
cancer warrior who supports others 
on their journey—Nancy Odari is 
all of these and more. “I want to 
encourage people to know that 
having cancer is not the end of life. 
It’s a new start of life.”  
Nancy received early diagnosis and 
treatment for breast cancer thanks 
to community health screenings 
through AMPATH, Lilly’s global 
health partner in Kenya. Through 
product and financial donations, Lilly 
and the Lilly Foundation support the 
AMPATH consortium, including the 
launch of AMPATH’s oncology center 
and mobile screening program for 
breast and cervical cancer.  Today, 
Nancy helps others get screening 
for early detection. “In every life, 
you know there’s a purpose for it.” HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 25FROM GLOBAL TO LOCAL: BRINGING  
THE LESSONS BACK HOME TO INDIANA
In the spring of 2018, Lilly joined forces with local 
organizations to launch a new pilot program with the goal 
of using community outreach to combat type 2 diabetes 
in three of the city’s most at-risk neighborhoods. Lead 
partner, the Richard M. Fairbanks School of Public Health 
at Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis 
(IUPUI), is joined by the Eskenazi Health system, the 
Marion County Public Health Department, and the Local 
Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) Indianapolis. The data-driven, $7 million, five-year program builds on 
similar approaches used throughout the world, including 
initiatives that Lilly and its partners have supported in 
Mexico, India, and South Africa. The pilot focuses on 
three Indianapolis neighborhoods with significant health 
disparities and high rates of diabetes: the Coalition of 
Northeast Neighborhoods, Northwest Neighborhood, and 
Near Westside Neighborhood. 
Life expectancy in these three communities can be 14 
years lower than in neighborhoods just 10 miles away. 
The lower life expectancy rate is largely due to health 
disparities and is similar to rates seen in countries 
such as Iraq and Bangladesh. The Indianapolis pilot 
will target both those with diabetes and those at high 
risk for developing the disease. In the three target 
neighborhoods, an estimated 10,000 people already 
live with diabetes, with prevalence rates as high as 17.5 
percent. By comparison, the diabetes prevalence rates in 
nearby communities in Indianapolis is as low as 5 percent.
The pilot is powered by newly-hired community 
healthcare workers to help identify people with diabetes 
and connect them with quality care. In addition, 
community members will help identify and propose 
solutions for the cultural, social, environmental, 
economic, and policy barriers that increase the risk for 
diabetes, such as the lack of healthy food options and 
public spaces for exercise. 
The pilot uses Lilly’s global health framework, which 
includes studying key research questions, reporting 
what works and what doesn’t, and then using the data to 
advocate for the scale-up of the most effective solutions. 
The program will contribute to Lilly 30x30, the company’s 
goal to create new access to quality health care for 
30 million people in underserved communities on an 
annual basis by 2030. It also directly supports the 2018 
Indiana government drive to require the development of a 
statewide strategic action plan to significantly reduce the 
prevalence of diabetes.
Lilly and its partners are testing the hypothesis that the 
implementation of a multi-pronged community health 
model will reduce complications for those with diabetes 
and reduce risk factors for those considered at high risk 
for developing the disease. Specifically, the pilot aims to:
• Increase screening requests by those at high risk  
 for diabetes;
• Improve access and continuity of care for people with  
 diabetes; and,
• Foster a physical and social environment that supports  
 diabetes control and prevention, such as better access  
 to healthy food and exercise options.
Learn more about this program by visiting  
diabetes.iupui.edu .96TH
86TH
75TH
52ND
38TH
10TH30TH
22ND83.5
YEARS
69.4
YEARS
10 MILESAVERAGE LIFE EXPECTANCY WITHIN  
10 MILES IN INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANAHUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 26PRODUCT DONATIONS
From natural disasters to helping people with limited 
resources, Lilly donates medicines to vulnerable people 
and communities worldwide. We work with leading 
partners to identify when Lilly products are needed and 
to ensure our medicines can reach the greatest number 
of people who need them. 
Life for a Child
Since 2008, Lilly has donated 1.8 million vials of insulin 
to the Life for a Child partnership. The program currently 
provides access to care, education, and life-saving 
medicines and supplies to nearly 20,000 children with 
diabetes in 42 developing countries. In 2018 alone, Lilly 
insulin donated through this program helped young 
people in more than 30 less-resourced countries. The 
program has also established new evidence regarding 
the outcomes for children affected by type 1 diabetes in 
less-resourced countries and, in some countries, has 
helped catalyze national awareness and policy change 
that has helped make the disease a government priority. 
PATIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
It is important to us to ensure that those who can benefit 
from our medicines have access to them. One way we 
do this in the United States is by donating to the Lilly 
Cares Foundation Patient Assistance Program, also 
known as Lilly Cares . This program is operated by the 
Lilly Cares Foundation, a separate nonprofit organization 
created to assist qualifying patients in obtaining certain 
Lilly medications at no cost. In 2018, Lilly Cares helped 
more than 120,000 people in the United States obtain 
the Lilly medications they needed in the areas of mental 
health, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, men’s health, 
osteoporosis, arthritis, cancer, psoriasis, migraine, and 
growth hormone disorders. 
In China, Lilly offers patient assistance programs for 
oncology and osteoporosis patients. Products are 
donated to the China Primary Health Care Foundation 
through which patients qualify and receive their 
medicine. In 2018, more than 3,000 new patients were registered and more than 9,000 patients were helped 
through the two programs launched in 2014 and  
2015, respectively.
DISASTER RELIEF 
When major disasters strike, Lilly responds with cash 
and product contributions to help people in desperate 
situations. Every disaster is different, and immediate 
needs in the aftermath vary. When responding, Lilly 
donates items that are specifically requested by relief 
agencies, and we partner with those agencies to 
maximize our donations and ensure contributions get to 
the people who need them most.
In 2018, Lilly responded to two powerful hurricanes, 
Florence and Michael, that struck the Carolinas and 
Florida, as well as to the devastation caused by the 
wildfires in California. During these difficult times, 
Lilly donated $1.85 million in medicines, and the Lilly 
Foundation contributed nearly $350,000 in cash for 
recovery efforts, including matched contributions from 
Lilly employees. 
Lilly also continued its partnership with Direct Relief’s 
Hurricane Preparedness Program (HPP) to help stock 
hospitals and clinics with essential supplies needed 
to meet the needs of patients immediately following 
a hurricane. Since 2009, Lilly has provided HPP with 
medicines so that they are prepositioned and ready-for-
use in communities impacted by hurricanes and major 
storms. In 2018, Lilly donated $1.1 million in product to 
this critical program. Despite all our strengths and assets, Indiana ranks 38th among states for overall health 
status. Through this effort, we are applying what we’ve learned from our global health work 
in underserved communities around the world with the expertise of our local partners and 
the passion of the people living in these neighborhoods. Together we’re going to find new 
solutions for closing these health disparity gaps .” 
- DAVE RICKS  |   LILLY CHAIRMAN AND CEO“HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 27Partnering with Project Hope in Puerto Rico
In the wake of the devastation that followed Hurricane Maria in 2017, much of Puerto Rico—where Lilly has two 
manufacturing facilities—continued to struggle in 2018 with infrastructure challenges, such as spotty electricity and 
disrupted access to medical care and health support services. In the face of these challenges, we maintained our 
commitment to helping Puerto Rico recover , sending two teams of medical professionals to the island—including nurses 
and diabetes educators—to volunteer. For this effort, we partnered with the international nonprofit organization Project 
HOPE, through Lilly’s Connecting Hearts Abroad global service program. 
The specialized skills-based volunteer program allowed Lilly physicians, scientists, and other healthcare professionals to 
apply their expertise and passion to directly impact people with, or at risk for, diabetes in communities outside of the San 
Juan and Ponce metropolitan areas, both heavily affected by the hurricane. Outreach services are critical in the post-
hurricane context, as the storm significantly disrupted access to many healthcare services and referral networks. 
Even prior to the hurricane, the burden of chronic diseases among adults in Puerto Rico was exceptionally high. 
Approximately 40 percent of adults are hypertensive and nearly 16 percent have diabetes. When it struck, Hurricane Maria 
exposed preexisting challenges in Puerto Rico—and created new ones—further limiting access to quality healthcare 
services, medications, healthy food, and clean drinking water in an already overburdened public sector. 
For those on the island living with diabetes, or at risk for the disease, the effects of Hurricane Maria have complicated their 
ability to get access to adequate care and treatment, as well as vital self-management programs. Patients who are able to 
acquire insulin—which requires refrigeration—face ongoing storage challenges due to a persistent lack of reliable power. 
Although maintaining a healthy diet is a critical component of successfully managing diabetes, as well as hypertension, 
many in Puerto Rico are routinely without access to fresh fruits and vegetables. 
In response, Lilly designed its program to address challenges at multiple levels, supporting those in need of immediate help, 
as well as working alongside local partners to strengthen the healthcare system overall. Lilly volunteers conducted diabetes 
screenings and testing, health education, and treatment support. They also helped train local healthcare providers and 
provided support for a community garden initiative to help ensure families have access to healthy food options.
PATIENTS REACHEDLILLY’S CONNECTING HEARTS ABROAD PROGRAM:  
IMPACT IN PUERTO RICO
EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS HOURS SERVED29 990 3,350
Programs 
Through Lilly 30x30, we are strengthening existing 
programs and developing new approaches that help 
people in resource-limited settings get greater access 
to Lilly products and services. These efforts include 
exploring and expanding alternative business models that 
create shared value for society and Lilly, pricing strategies, 
patient support programs, and product donations.PATIENT SUPPORT PROGRAMS
Lilly provides more than 150 patient support programs 
across 51 countries that reach close to 2 million people 
annually. Our patient support programs are primarily 
designed to support people who are taking Lilly 
medicines as well as their caregivers and loved ones. 
These programs comprise three categories: answering 
questions related to living with disease and managing 
health, providing information about our medicines and HUMAN RIGHTS   |  PAGE 28training about proper use of our devices, and supporting 
patients through reimbursement and product access 
issues. In an effort to expand access to our medicines, 
Lilly designs and supports programs that take into 
consideration a patient’s income level and ability to pay.  
Pipeline
Through our 30x30 pipeline efforts, Lilly is taking a 
multifaceted approach to find new medicines or new 
indications for existing medications to address diseases 
that disproportionately affect people living in resource-
limited settings. This includes efforts to:
• Review our current and legacy products, and research  
 and development (R&D) capabilities, through the  
 30x30 lens
• Identify and explore external partnerships and  
 business development models that support Lilly 30x30
LILLY’S WORK IN MULTIDRUG-RESISTANT 
TUBERCULOSIS
Building on our legacy of more than 20 years of work to 
reduce the burden of tuberculosis (TB), Lilly continues 
to support discovery efforts aimed at accelerating the 
next generation of TB medicines with the understanding 
that more effective medicines with fewer side effects are 
desperately needed. Our work includes support for  
the following: 
• The Lilly TB Drug Discovery Initiative:  a nonprofit,  
 public-private partnership with a mission to accelerate  
 early-stage drug discovery and develop clinical  
 candidates by bringing together specialists from  
 around the world for the systematic exploration of vast,  
 private molecular libraries—including Lilly’s.
• Infectious Disease Research Institute (IDRI):  a  
 nonprofit that applies innovative science to develop  
 products to eliminate infectious diseases of global  
 importance. Lilly has committed more than $35 million  
 in funding and in-kind contributions to IDRI from 2008  
 through 2021. Funders include Lilly, the Bill &  
 Melinda Gates Foundation, the National Institutes  
 of Health, the World Health Organization, and  
 GlaxoSmithKline. 
• TB Drug Accelerator (TBDA):  a groundbreaking  
 partnership between eight pharmaceutical companies  
 and seven research organizations with support from  
 the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation focusing on  
 finding a TB regimen that cures patients in just one  
 month. The partnership has advanced several   molecules, including one to the first clinical study  
 involving humans, which is a major milestone in drug  
 development, and another to the point of assembling  
 a data package for submission to the U.S Food and  
 Drug Administration. The partnership breaks from  
 traditional R&D practices in that the participating  
 companies work together to develop the best  
 prospects, regardless of where the drug originated. LABOR
INTRO  |  HUMAN RIGHTS   |  LABOR  |  HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT  |  ANTI-CORRUPTIONTo solve some of the toughest challenges in medicine, 
we need the most innovative ideas from the best talent in 
the world. Our company’s values—integrity, excellence, 
and respect for people—shape our approach to attracting 
and developing a highly skilled and ethical workforce. We 
are committed to fairness and nondiscrimination in our 
employment practices, and we value diverse backgrounds, 
skills, and global perspectives. Lilly is a place where 
employees can enjoy meaningful work, build successful 
careers, and be part of a caring, inclusive team working 
with shared purpose to create medicines that make life 
better for people around the world.  
In this section, we discuss our efforts to provide employees 
with a safe, supportive, and rewarding work environment, 
and to offer fair compensation, training, and career 
development. We highlight our commitment to maintaining 
a workplace that upholds all applicable labor standards 
and is free from coercion, discrimination, and retaliation. 
We also underscore our efforts to promote diversity and 
inclusion within our company, as a reflection of our values 
and a key driver of business success and growth. LABOR   |  PAGE 30In 2018, Lilly took a number of actions to build an increasingly collaborative and inclusive workplace culture. We unveiled 
a new framework to articulate and emphasize four key expectations—include, innovate, accelerate, and deliver—that will 
help us be the company we strive to be. The framework describes what Lilly expects of its employees and leaders, and what 
they, in turn, can expect from the company: to be part of a team that cares about them and our shared purpose of making life 
better for people around the world.
To meet our business objectives, the company expects that employees work together, inclusive of colleagues from all 
perspectives, to speed discovery and development of life-changing medicines, grow revenue for shareholders, and create 
long-term value.
Not only do we want to inspire our employees and attract the best talent, we want those who do business with Lilly to find 
us trustworthy and easy to work with. We strive to create an environment built on mutual respect, openness, and individual 
integrity. Respect for people includes our concern for all people who touch or are touched by our company: patients, 
customers, employees, shareholders, partners, suppliers, and communities.
A key factor in creating a positive, dynamic environment for our employees—and in delivering results for our customers—is 
our focus on diversity and inclusion (D&I). Lilly has taken a research-based approach to D&I in the past several years, clearly 
highlighting its importance and benefits in our new corporate framework—and we are seeing results. In 2019, we were proud 
to be one of four companies to receive the prestigious Catalyst Award for two of our signature initiatives—our Employee 
Journeys and People Strategy.
Read more about our diversity and inclusion  initiatives later in this section. SHIFTING OUR CULTURE LABOR   |  PAGE 31Freedom of Association and 
Right to Collective Bargaining 
Lilly recognizes the importance of freedom of association 
in the workplace and respects the right of our employees 
to join associations of their own choosing. We interact 
with works councils and unions in several countries; we 
support these bodies and work productively with them. 
The vast majority of our workers globally are not covered 
under traditional collective-bargaining agreements. 
In some countries where we operate, governments 
mandate working conditions, such as salary increases, 
minimum wages, bonuses, number of weekly working 
hours, vacation time, and overtime rates. These vary by 
country, and we follow these mandates wherever they  
are required.
Several of our affiliates have employee councils that 
meet regularly with management to discuss workforce-
related issues that directly impact them, such as 
company policies and organizational changes. As laws 
and guidelines change wherever we operate, we will 
continue to work with employees, advocacy groups, and 
governing bodies to maintain compliance and respect the 
right of free association.Forced and Child Labor
Lilly maintains a long-standing practice of complying with 
local minimum-age laws and requirements and does not 
employ child labor, or forced or compulsory labor, in any 
of our facilities globally. In 2011, Lilly revised our global 
standards and procedures to include specific language 
about human rights, including our expectation that 
vendors to Lilly abide by Lilly’s human rights standards 
as one piece of our Supplier Code of Conduct .The UN Global Compact’s principles state, in part, that both adults and children should be free from compulsory or coerced 
labor, and that people should have the right to associate freely and bargain collectively. Lilly fully supports these standards 
that are upheld in U.S. law. LILLY’S SUPPORT OF 
LABOR STANDARDS LABOR   |  PAGE 32At Lilly, we support a culture of well-being by providing competitive pay, comprehensive employee benefit programs, training 
and development resources, and opportunities for employees to serve in their communities and around the world. 
Lilly is committed to ensuring pay equity for all of our employees. We comply with local legislative analyses and reporting 
requirements globally; for many years, we have regularly conducted pay-equity studies in the United States. In 2018, we 
broadened these efforts to include Lilly employees in Brazil, China, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom. The results 
were favorable, with a small percentage of employees receiving an adjustment.
While our company’s programs vary around the globe, we take a holistic approach to our employee benefits. These may 
include flexible work arrangements; on-site conveniences, such as cafes, fitness centers, and child care; competitive time-
off programs; retirement benefits; and health and disability programs that are available to eligible employees when they 
need support. In some locations, certain benefits are extended to family members. Read more in our Employee Well-Being  
at Lilly  section. PAY AND BENEFITS 
EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING 
Keeping our people safe and healthy—whether at home or at work—is one of our highest priorities and aligns directly with 
our company values.
We realize that the journey toward safety excellence never ends, and we are constantly evaluating approaches to improve our 
programs and to integrate injury prevention into everyday work. At Lilly, employee safety and well-being are managed by our 
Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) team. For more information, see our discussion in Employee Safety . LABOR   |  PAGE 33LEADERSHIP POSITIONS2
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
U.S. WORKFORCEWOMEN MEN42% 58%
48% 52%
49% 51%WOMEN MEN
WOMEN MEN36%FIVE OF FOURTEEN MEMBERS 
ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ARE WOMEN
25.7%1IS THE AVERAGE FOR FORTUNE 100 COMPANIES
43%LILLY ALSO HAS SIX WOMEN ON ITS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEEU.S. WORKFORCE ETHNIC DIVERSITYAnother way Lilly invests in its employees is through learning and development. Continued learning and growth is essential 
for individuals to stay engaged in their work, to develop their careers, and to be the best contributors they can be for Lilly. This 
further helps our company fulfill its purpose.
We offer the training our employees need to do their jobs in the highly regulated pharmaceutical industry. We also provide 
training about corporate policies, such as those contained in our code of conduct. And we work to cultivate a culture of lifelong 
learning by encouraging employees to seek ongoing education and growth experiences, helping them to build careers that are 
rewarding both personally and professionally. 
Because Lilly’s work extends through business areas and functions across the entire breadth of our industry’s value cycle—
medicine discovery, development, manufacturing, and marketing—a single career might include opportunities in several areas 
of interest, or several different geographies. To help individuals navigate these opportunities, we offer access to learning and 
development programs that can assist individuals looking to acquire the new skills needed to achieve career aspirations.  
Strong leadership is an important part of a thriving company. To invest in leaders at Lilly, we offer continuous learning and 
development opportunities for supervisors at all levels of the company to develop skills and apply strategies to become more 
inclusive, and to help their teams become more collaborative and effective.LEARNING AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
1. 2020 Women on Boards, 2018 Gender Diversity Index. 
2. Percentage of those who supervise others or hold high-level strategic roles.GENDER DIVERSITY AT LILLY IN 201823%
MINORITY
EMPLOYEES
LATINO OTHER9%
ASIAN8%
AFRICAN AMERICAN4% 2%LABOR   |  PAGE 34At Lilly, we care about our people. All of them. Embracing diversity at Lilly means understanding, respecting, and valuing 
differences, including race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability status, work style, national origin, and age. 
We believe that a diverse, inclusive culture provides fertile ground for scientific and clinical innovation, and also sparks new 
customer insights.
Our commitment to diversity spans not only our workplace, but also shapes our understanding of the marketplace, and our 
relationships with our suppliers. We’re inspired to make a difference in people’s lives every day—through the discovery of 
life-changing medicines, better understanding of disease management, and support for people living with illness. We do this 
with a commitment to diversity and inclusion because we recognize that every individual is unique.
This perspective helps us to attract and retain the best talent from around the world—people from all backgrounds, who 
can understand the perspectives of our diverse customers. Our efforts to build a more diverse and inclusive workforce at 
Lilly have gained momentum since we began a research initiative to better understand the lived experiences of women  and 
minorities at Lilly. The research program called Employee Journeys resulted in a subsequent set of programs known as our 
People Strategy. 
In recognition of this work, we recently won the 2019 Catalyst Award—a prestigious global honor that evaluates companies’ 
recruitment, development, and advancement initiatives with a focus on proven, measurable results that benefit women 
across a range of dimensions—including race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, nationality, and 
disability. After a rigorous examination of initiatives, Catalyst, a global nonprofit, conducts intensive on-site evaluations to 
hear from leaders and employees across the company about their experiences. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION: A 
KEY ELEMENT OF OUR CULTURE  
About the Employee 
Journeys: Listening  
and Learning  
Beginning in 2015, we took the research process we use 
to understand patients and turned it inward to better 
understand the lived experiences, or journeys, of our 
employees: the enablers and barriers they experience in 
their careers. This qualitative and quantitative research—
first focusing on women and then focusing on African 
Americans, Asians, and Latinos—yielded themes we 
called “moments of truth.” 
This research revealed that cultural and gender 
differences were affecting the way some employees 
reported being seen and heard—or not. Many women, 
for example, reported experiencing something called “imposter syndrome”—secretly feeling as though their 
qualifications weren’t enough. Issues of authenticity were 
raised—where some minorities and women reported 
feeling pressure to act in ways that don’t reflect their own 
unique perspectives. Women of color, especially, said 
they sometimes felt invisible. 
We shared the results with all Lilly employees, 
developing a common language to help colleagues 
more easily relate to and understand one another’s 
individual and cultural experiences and perceptions. 
The result has been a strong, companywide network of 
D&I champions, and a new appreciation of the value of 
different perspectives.
 LABOR   |  PAGE 35People Strategy:  
Taking Action   
Building a more inclusive culture doesn’t happen by 
itself. It requires focus and action. To that end, in 2017 
and 2018, we created and implemented a set of initiatives 
called the People Strategy to address what we found 
in our research, and to further embed D&I into our 
internal talent systems and processes. We undertook and 
expanded several significant D&I strategies in 2018:  
• We continued our Employee Journey research and  
 analysis to understand the diverse experiences of  
 our employees.
• We reviewed our talent management programs  
 through the lens of D&I to assess and address  
 hidden biases while ensuring greater transparency  
 about requirements for career development  
 and advancement. 
• Knowing that D&I starts with representation across  
 our workforce, we set aspirational recruiting goals  
 for women globally and minorities in the United  
 States. Through 2018, we exceeded both goals  
 and reset guidance for 2019 in line with labor  
 pool availability.
• For management roles across the enterprise, we  
 held ourselves accountable for progress by setting  
 aspirational goals to increase representation for  
 women globally and minorities in the United States. 
• Between early 2017 and the end of 2018, the total  
 number of women in management grew, increasing  
 our overall representation of women in these roles to  
 42 percent, meeting our goal. And the number of  
 women on our Executive Committee—leaders who  
 report directly to the CEO—climbed from 29 percent  
 to 43 percent over that time. We also met our goals  
 for increasing the percentage of minorities in  
 management. We are currently re-evaluating to set  
 new goals. It’s important to note that these aren’t quotas. We are 
making progress by focusing on developing talented 
people from all backgrounds to further their careers. For 
every open position at Lilly, we require a diverse pool of 
candidates and a diverse set of interviewers. This helps 
us ensure that leaders look beyond their own comfort 
zone for the most qualified candidate available for each 
open role. 
We also established new expectations for managers to 
lead more inclusively by valuing differences, recognizing 
and overcoming bias, and fostering a speak-up culture. 
Our performance management process and Pulse  survey 
to gauge employee feedback are measurements we use 
to hold our leaders accountable. 
We’ve expanded training programs for leaders globally, to 
help them develop skills to support conscious inclusion 
and psychological safety. Several thousand leaders have 
participated in one or both of these programs so far. 
We’ve also begun a new cultural literacy program for all 
employees. Top leaders have long sponsored employees 
who have the aspiration and the ability to lead at Lilly in 
the future. This sponsorship initiative has been expanded 
to involve more senior leaders with high-potential 
employees from majority and minority groups with key 
talents, to help guide and support their careers. 
External Efforts    
Our commitment to diversity goes beyond our employees. 
We maintain a presence at top colleges and universities 
and work with a wide range of professional associations 
to recruit a diverse workforce. We also attract top talent 
through an extensive global MBA internship program.
We partner with advocacy groups, professional societies, 
community organizations, public and private healthcare 
administrators, and others to help reduce health 
disparities and to address the unique healthcare needs 
of all communities. Our commitment to diversity and 
inclusion also extends through the full spectrum of our 
business, including our clinical trial strategies and our 
supply chain.By understanding our employees’ journeys, we’re paving the way for more inclusion and 
career growth for everyone —and more innovation for our patients. And we’ve just begun. ” 
- DAVE RICKS  |   LILLY CHAIRMAN AND CEO“LABOR   |  PAGE 36Global Impact    
We understand that diversity means different things 
around the globe. Our leadership teams formulate 
their diversity strategies by considering our corporate 
perspective and then customizing their own plans 
based on local demographics and culture. For example, 
some build plans that are related to gender, provincial, 
generational, and/or disability diversity. 
Lilly’s senior vice president for human resources and 
diversity reports directly to our chairman and CEO. 
And our Code of Business Conduct, The Red Book , also 
summarizes our approach to creating an inclusive, 
nondiscriminatory environment. Employee Resource Groups
One key element of our inclusive culture is our Employee 
Resource Groups (ERGs), which help us connect with the 
diversity of our patients and customers around the world. 
In 2018, the ERGs that represent our Latino, African 
American, and Asian employees played key leadership 
roles in our Employee Journeys.  
In recent years, Lilly’s ERGs have been expanding into 
areas with a more direct business impact, becoming even 
more central to our company’s success. For example, 
our ERGs frequently consult on marketing and workplace 
programs. They also assist with corporate executive 
training programs on topics such as cultural awareness 
and inclusion. When colleagues from other backgrounds 
are preparing for global assignments, ERG members 
help them understand the customs and culture of 
their destination country. Lilly ERGs also participate in 
recruiting events at universities and career fairs to help 
us attract diverse prospective employees, fellows,  
and interns.
ERGs include members representing all levels of the 
company, and each ERG has a senior leader as an 
executive sponsor, someone who takes an active role in 
ERG events and activities. This means that ERG members 
have interactions with leaders they might otherwise 
never meet, which offers opportunities for informal or 
formal mentoring relationships. 
At Lilly, ERGs support an inclusive workplace 
environment by: 
• Creating cross-cultural learning opportunities 
• Providing networking and cultural support among  
 employees with common backgrounds or interests 
• Offering experiences for employees from diverse  
 backgrounds to build leadership skills
About 14,600 Lilly employees are members of at least 
one of our 11 ERGs, which include more than 75 chapters 
located at Lilly offices, research sites, and manufacturing 
operations around the world.2018 RECOGNITION
CATALYST:  2019 Catalyst Award Recipient 
JUST CAPITAL:  America’s Most Just Companies, No. 58
ETHISPHERE:   
World’s Most Ethical Companies, 2017, 2018 and 2019
THOMSON REUTERS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION INDEX
WORKING MOTHER MAGAZINE:  100 Best Companies for 
Working Mothers, 24 consecutive years
DIVERSITY INC.:  2018 Top 50 Companies for  
Diversity, No. 5
FORTUNE MAGAZINE: World’s Most Admired Companies
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FEMALE EXECUTIVES:   
Top Companies for Executive Women
HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION:  
Corporate Equality Index—Perfect Score
BLACK ENTERPRISE MAGAZINE:   
Best Companies for Diversity
SCIENCE MAGAZINE:  Science 2018 Top 20 Employers
DAVE THOMAS FOUNDATION:   
Best Adoption-Friendly Workplaces
LATINO MAGAZINE:   
Latino 100—Best Places for Latinos to WorkLABOR   |  PAGE 37LGBTQ Employees at Lilly
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) 
people, and those with other sexual and gender 
identities, are an important segment of Lilly’s workforce. 
In the United States, we are required to collect data on 
the race, gender, and ethnicity of our employees, as well 
as those who are military veterans or have disabilities—
but there is no legal mandate for similar data collection 
on sexual orientation or gender identity. 
Many leading U.S. employers and colleges have 
implemented voluntary LGBTQ self-identification 
programs. We invite employees in the United States 
and the United Kingdom to voluntarily self-identify as 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer (LGBTQ), 
or heterosexual. We believe self-identification is a good 
practice that, where permitted by country-specific laws 
and culture, can help Lilly make progress toward a more 
diverse and inclusive workplace.EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS IN 2018
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS ARE CRITICALLY IMPORTANT TO 
OUR COMPANY’S BUSINESS STRATEGY.
EMPLOYEE
RESOURCE GROUPSSATELLITE
GROUPS GLOBALLY11 75
MEMBERS14,600LABOR   |  PAGE 38We believe that doing business with a diverse set of suppliers delivers value to the company and creates a competitive 
advantage for us by linking the fresh perspectives and nimble thinking of ethnically diverse, women-owned, and/or small 
businesses to our internal business needs. 
Diverse suppliers are defined as those with at least 51 percent ownership and control by an ethnic minority, a woman, 
or someone who is LGBTQ. Small suppliers are defined as per U.S. Small Business Administration small business size 
standards. We actively seek to expand relationships with these types of suppliers, which we view as an often-untapped 
source of talent. 
In 2018, we spent $529 million with 619 suppliers classified as diverse, woman-owned, and/or LGBTQ-owned businesses, as 
well as more than $530 million with more than 1,640 suppliers classified as small businesses. During its last audit of Lilly in 
2016, the U.S. Small Business Administration awarded Lilly an “outstanding” rating in our efforts to promote and maintain 
supplier diversity, which is the highest recognition possible.SUPPLIER DIVERSITY 
2018 SUPPLIER DIVERSITY IMPACT
ELI LILLY AND COMPANY IS COMMITTED TO PROVIDING OPPORTUNITIES TO MINORITY, WOMEN, 
VETERAN, LGBTQ AND SMALL BUSINESSES THROUGH ITS SUPPLIER DIVERSITY PROGRAM.
$1.8B2018 ECONOMIC IMPACT THROUGH LILLY’S SUPPLIER DIVERSITY PROGRAMSMALL AND
DIVERSE SPEND
$699M
Spending with minority, 
women, veteran, LGBTQ 
& small businesses
JOBS SUPPORTED
11,513
Total jobs supported 
through Lilly’s supplier 
diversity spending$655.8M
Earnings by people in the 
jobs in Lilly’s supply chain and their communities
$605.3M
Federal, state and local personal and corporate taxes generated due to the economic activityTAXESINCOMEHEALTH, SAFETY, 
AND ENVIRONMENT
INTRO  |  HUMAN RIGHTS   |  LABOR   |  HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  ANTI-CORRUPTIONMaking medicines that help people live longer, healthier, 
more active lives requires the use of valuable resources, 
such as energy, water, and raw materials. At Lilly, we 
believe that promoting a healthy environment, maintaining 
a safe workplace, and operating responsibly and in an 
environmentally sustainable manner are linked to our 
business and supported by our mission and values. As a 
result, Lilly manages health, safety, and the environment 
(HSE) under a unified governance structure.
We strive to understand and systematically address  
the human behaviors and choices that can improve  
HSE performance. We encourage responsible action  
at every point in our value chain: from the researchers  
who explore complicated chemical reactions, to the 
manufacturers who may work with hazardous  
substances, to the administrators who manage complex 
regulatory responsibilities.
This section covers the broad range of our HSE activities, 
from our approach and management systems, to our 
work addressing environmental and safety issues across 
our value chain, to performance data and examples 
demonstrating our progress.HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 40LILLY’S POLICY ON PROTECTING PEOPLE, THE ENVIRONMENT, AND OUR ASSETS     
We strive to maintain a secure workplace and to protect people and the communities in which we operate and serve. We 
are focused on continuously improving our health and safety practices to promote the well-being of our people. We are 
committed to conducting business in a responsible and environmentally sustainable manner. We are committed to a robust 
security culture to protect our people and brand from harm, and our assets from loss, theft, or damage. Each Lilly employee 
is responsible for implementing our security practices and applying them in our daily activities.
In 2018, Lilly scored a rating of A- on climate change and B on water from CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project. CDP 
is the world’s largest repository of environmental management information. It allows companies and their stakeholders to 
assess environmental performance. For CDP, a score of A or A- is considered “leading” level, and a score of B is considered 
“managing” level.
MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ACROSS  
THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE
Research and Development
We consider environmental factors 
from the earliest stages of design and 
development. We use the 12 principles 
of green chemistry, environmental risk 
assessments, packaging manufacturing 
reviews, and an Environmental 
Development Review process to 
evaluate potential environmental 
impacts during the scale-up of human 
health pharmaceutical production to 
manufacturing levels.Materials and Natural Resources
Our stakeholders, including 
customers, governments, and 
suppliers worldwide, are increasingly 
focused on the materials and 
chemicals used to make products. 
We have a chemical management 
program and work to reduce our use 
of materials, water, and other natural 
resources when possible.Manufacturing
Our HSE committee oversees 
sustainability performance and 
compliance with applicable HSE 
regulations, policies, procedures, and 
standards while ensuring we continually 
measure, report, and reduce Lilly’s 
environmental impacts associated 
with our own as well as contract 
manufacturing organizations.
Sales and Marketing
At many Lilly sales and marketing 
offices worldwide, we manage projects 
to improve environmental performance 
while increasing employee awareness 
and action. Lilly continually works to 
improve the fuel efficiency of our  
sales force fleet through vehicle  
choice and optimization of driving and 
work practices. These efforts also 
reduce associated greenhouse gas  
(GHG) emissions.Product Transport and Packaging
We consider many factors in 
selecting product packaging, 
including sustainability aspects such 
as materials use and recyclability. Product Use
Lilly is committed to understanding 
the potential effects of pharmaceutical 
products in the environment. We 
support using science-based 
evaluations to assess and reduce 
the environmental risks of our 
pharmaceutical products. Through 
collaborations with industry partners, 
academic researchers, and regulatory 
agencies, we continually work to further 
understand and proactively address any 
potential impacts from our products.Materials, water, and energy, HSE management system and standards
Product End-of-Life
Due to patient safety considerations and medicine regulations, reuse and recycling are not applicable to our 
products. We are working with stakeholders to ensure cost-effective approaches are available for product 
end-of-life disposal that balance environmental protection, patient privacy, legal compliance, and security.HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 41LILLY’S 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY GOALS
ENVIRONMENT
Reduction in 
greenhouse gas 
emissions1,2,3
(baseline 2012)20% 20% 15% 20%
Improvement in  
energy efficiency2
(baseline 2012)Reduction of 
phosphorus emissions 
in wastewater4
(baseline 2014)Improvement in
waste efficiency5
while increasing recycling rate 
above 70%  and decreasing waste 
to landfill below 10%  of total waste
(baseline 2012)
PROGRESS THROUGH 2018
1  Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward the greenhouse gas reduction goal is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions,  
 and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise.
2  Per square foot of site space.
3  This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions related to site-purchased energy (e.g., electricity, natural gas, steam, and chilled water) and on-site fuel combustion.
4  In absolute terms. 
5  Per unit of production or site-relevant index. Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “beneficially reused” without extensive processing.
6 A new goal for measuring motor vehicle collisions was established in 2015.RECORDABLE INJURY AND 
LOST-TIME INJURY RATE
YEARRECORDABLE
INJURY RATELOST-TIME
INJURY RATE
2020 GOAL 0.70 0.25
2018 0.79 0.27
2017 0.82 0.28
2016 0.93 0.32
2015 0.88 0.27
2014 0.90 0.36
2007 1.44 0.60MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION
YEAR MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE6
2020 GOAL 12%
2018 15%
2017 15%
2016 16%
2015 16%
2014 18%
2007 25%SAFETY
Lost-time
injury rateLILLY’S SAFETY PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE  
In 2013, we established new interim goals for the three occupational safety metrics we track: recordable injuries, 
lost-time injuries, and motor vehicle collision rate. These goals were developed to reduce our injury rates across a 
seven-year period: 2014–2020.
Total recordable
injury rate0.70 0.25 12%
Motor vehicle
collision rate6Reduction12.7% 0.7% 34.4% 34%
Improvement Reduction Improvement
recycling rate increased 
to 55% , waste-to-landfill 
decreased to 21%HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 42Lilly’s HSE Policy Statement, 
Procedures, and Standards  
Lilly has brief, principle-based policy statements that 
are implemented in two ways: through our global 
procedures, which describe basic principles and general 
expectations; and through our global standards, which 
provide auditable, detailed requirements. These key 
governance documents, and our related management 
systems, together detail Lilly’s HSE management and 
performance expectations. GOVERNING HSE AT LILLY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
GLOBAL HSE COMMITTEE
DIVISIONAL HSE COMMITTEESHSE management at Lilly is integrated through a formal, companywide structure, including the following groups  
and individuals:  
• Global HSE committee,  which includes senior executives from key areas of the business, ensures proper oversight, and  
 plays a central role in monitoring corporate HSE strategy, compliance performance and performance against goals, as  
 well as continuous improvement;
• Vice President responsible for corporate engineering and global HSE,  a member of the global HSE committee who  
 works closely with HSE and other functional leaders to ensure an appropriate and thoughtful response to HSE risks and  
 opportunities, monitor emerging and evolving issues, approve appropriate metrics and goals, and oversee compliance with  
 all HSE regulations, policies, procedures, and standards worldwide;
• Lilly Research Laboratories HSE committees,  which promote safety, health, and environmental aspects across research  
 and development labs;
• Affiliates HSE committee,  which oversees those elements of HSEDirections  programs which affect all affiliates globally;
• Manufacturing HSE committee,  which supports these efforts and drives ongoing improvement throughout  
 manufacturing; and,
• Executives and lead teams in each of our business groups, manufacturing, Lilly Research Laboratories, and general and  
 administrative functions,  who ensure good governance and oversee performance for HSE in those areas.HSE GOVERNANCE 
STRUCTURE 
HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 43Lilly’s global policies and standards clearly articulate  
our commitments and guide our efforts. They include  
the following:
• Protecting People, the Environment, and Our Assets  
 – Policy Statement:  Sets companywide expectations  
 for conducting business in a responsible and  
 environmentally sustainable manner, promoting  
 the well-being of employees, and protecting the  
 communities in which we operate.  
• Management System Standard:  Defines requirements  
 to ensure a robust process is in place within each part  
 of the organization to effectively manage compliance  
 with Lilly HSE standards, applicable regulatory  
 requirements, and other external HSE standards  
 to which we commit.
• Environmental Standard:  Provides more detailed  
 requirements and establishes the core governance  
 requirements to manage the environmental and  
 energy-related aspects of our operations.
• Health and Safety and Process Safety Standards:  
 Provide requirements for identifying and evaluating  
 workplace hazards and establishing control measures  
 to eliminate or reduce the risk of injuries and illnesses.
• Global Engineering Standards:  Establish requirements  
 for the design and operation of facilities and  
 equipment, to ensure compliance with internal  
 and external requirements, and responsibly manage  
 environmental aspects of operations.
• Product Stewardship Standard: Provides a systematic  
 approach to managing product and process risks  
 throughout the product life cycle, from research and  
 discovery to product end-of-life.
Management Systems 
Our Management System Standard requires that all 
business areas, including manufacturing, research 
and development, affiliate locations, and general 
administrative offices, adhere to an HSE management 
system that is consistent with third-party standards such 
as the International Organization for Standardization 
(ISO) 14001, Occupational Health and Safety Assessment 
Series (OHSAS) 18001, and the American Chemistry 
Council’s Responsible Care Management System 
(RCMS®) standards. Our global HSE management system 
is periodically reviewed by an independent, accredited 
auditor to ensure it conforms to the RCMS.Audits 
We conduct audits of Lilly sites following protocols for 
each of our Global HSE Standards as well as regulatory 
requirements. Our five-year audit plan is updated 
annually and identifies which sites to audit based on risk, 
with sites associated with high-risk operations being 
audited more frequently. This results in annual audits 
of approximately 25 to 30 percent of our sites globally. 
In 2018, we audited 18 sites. All audit results are shared 
with senior management, and sites are required to 
respond to all audit observations and track action plans. 
We also hosted 71 HSE-related external regulatory 
agency visits which resulted in no critical observations 
and no related fines.HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 44Lilly takes a broad approach to understanding and actively managing the risks and opportunities associated with HSE issues 
across the product life cycle. Our Product Stewardship Standard provides a systematic way to manage product and process 
risks, from the discovery of new medicines through use, to product end-of-life and disposal considerations. Reflecting the 
breadth of product-related sustainability issues we consider and manage, the Product Stewardship Standard guides us in 
these areas:
• Emerging issues:  Identifying, analyzing, and managing environmental issues as they arise; 
• Procurement: Considering environmental factors in purchasing decisions;
• Product discovery: Reviewing internal and external research operations to foster high HSE standards; 
• Product development: Using inherently safer design principles, such as green chemistry, as well as engineering  
 innovations, to identify and reduce HSE hazards from new production processes where possible; 
• Product packaging: Reducing the amount of packaging and using environmentally preferred materials, when possible,  
 while satisfying regulatory and customer requirements, meeting marketing objectives, and preserving product integrity; 
• Distribution: Ensuring safe product transport and warehousing while reducing associated environmental impacts; 
• Marketing and sales: Working with customers to enhance the patient experience related to product  
 environmental performance;
• Suppliers, contract operations, and alliances: Evaluating and influencing the HSE performance of suppliers,  
 contract operations, and alliances; and, 
• Supply chain management: Establishing plans to ensure business continuity and appropriate emergency response,  
 if needed.ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT
Green Chemistry and 
Engineering in Research 
and Development 
The research and development phase significantly 
influences the environmental footprint of pharmaceutical 
manufacturing. At Lilly, we strive to embed environmental 
innovation early in the product development lifecycle 
through our focus on green chemistry and end-product 
engineering. Our green chemistry initiatives include 
developing manufacturing processes that use less-  
 toxic chemical alternatives where feasible. We explore 
innovations that can lessen or eliminate potential negative 
environmental outputs, which can result from production 
of a medicine.
Green chemistry and engineering have been a focus  
area at Lilly for many years. We engage in a variety of  
activities, including:
• Eliminating or reducing the hazardous materials used  
 to make a product; 
• Focusing specifically on removal of substances of  
 very high concern, classified as potentially carcinogenic,  HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 45 mutagenic or toxic for reproduction by the European  
 Chemicals Agency;
• Shrinking the waste profiles of certain molecules  
 through reduced solvent and water use;
• Increasing the overall efficiency of material use;
• Advancing the underlying green chemistry of medicine  
 development and making production both safer and  
 more environmentally friendly through a commitment  
 to continuous process improvement; and,
• Implementing new manufacturing technologies that  
 minimize environmental impact, including continuous  
 flow processes, which Lilly has worked to advance in  
 the pharmaceutical industry.
When we are developing a new human medicine at Lilly, 
green chemistry considerations are a complement to 
other criteria such as quality, cost, and speed to market. 
In fact, in most cases green chemistry improvements are 
directly proportional to reduced product costs as these 
improvements typically deliver higher product quality 
and yield. From the selection of candidate molecules, 
through the identification of manufacturing processes, 
our established business practices hold our development 
teams accountable for process efficiency, the type 
and quantity of materials used, and safety. At major 
milestones, we evaluate success and share feedback with 
development teams. We share guidelines, such as the 
Lilly solvent selection guide and safety information, with 
our external partners to ensure consistent objectives, 
processes, and outcomes.
Employing green chemistry and engineering, we have 
been able to enhance the safety profile of manufacturing 
processes by significantly reducing the risk scale of 
the most hazardous manufacturing steps. We are also 
focused on the adoption of greener and safer solvents 
where possible. For example, we have replaced several 
hazardous solvents with safer alternatives, including 
significant, nearly carbon-neutral, efforts to limit the 
use of dichloromethane (a hazardous air pollutant and 
suspected carcinogen).
GLOBAL CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT 
Governments around the world and across many of the 
regions where we operate have developed chemical 
management legislation—such as the REACH regulation 
in the European Union (EU)—that requires companies to 
collect and register information about the chemicals they 
manufacture or use, unless those chemicals are exempt.
These regulations may require replacing chemicals 
identified as hazardous with safer alternatives, when 
available. To address these concerns, Lilly hasimplemented a formal program and screening process to 
evaluate designated “chemicals of concern” throughout 
the research and development process. Our process also 
addresses mitigation steps where new restrictions may 
impact our existing operations. This allows us to ensure 
that our facilities and supply chain remain in compliance 
with chemical management laws.
In addition to our green chemistry assessments, during 
the scale-up of medicine production to manufacturing 
levels in our human pharmaceutical business, we use 
an Environmental Development Review (EDR) process 
to evaluate other potential environmental issues and 
opportunities. This process identifies and addresses 
potential impacts arising from manufacturing, suggests 
process improvements, and facilitates learning as 
new medicines transition from the laboratory to the 
manufacturing facility.
EXTERNAL COLLABORATIONS
Lilly actively pursues wider industry collaborations  
to help advance green chemistry, through a  
combination of dialogue and leadership with peer 
companies, scientific partnerships, and sponsorship  
of research. In 2018, we were involved in the following  
pre-competitive collaborations:
• American Chemical Society (ACS) Pharmaceutical  
 Roundtable:  Lilly co-chairs this important group,  
 which has grown from three companies in 2005 to 28  
 today. In 2018, Lilly continued to lead a subgroup  
 focused on greener peptide, oligonucleotide, and  
 antibody-drug conjugate development and  
 manufacture. Over the past decade, peptides have  
 shown great potential as therapeutic targets in  
 both human and animal health, but their manufacture  
 routinely involves hazardous reagents, produces  
 high waste-to-mass ratios, and requires solvent-  
 intensive purification systems. By investing early  
 in environmentally friendly production methods,  
 participating companies hope to create the scale  
 necessary for these technologies to become  
 cost-competitive in the long run.  
• IQ Consortium: Lilly continues working with the IQ  
 Green Chemistry Working Group to promote the Green  
 Aspiration Level (GAL) tool . Until now, the use of green  
 chemistry metrics among pharmaceutical companies  
 has been hampered by the lack of an agreed-upon  
 standard. This new tool makes the development  
 of objective goals, like process efficiency and mass  
 intensity, easier. It uses industry benchmarks to  
 create a unified scoring system for green chemistry  
 formulations, and introduces a new green scorecard  
 for use across the supply chain.    HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 46Green Chemistry in Action: Replacing Horseshoe Crabs in 
Endotoxin Testing
Lilly microbiologist Jay Bolden is an expert in bacterial endotoxin detection—a process 
used both by Lilly and the entire pharmaceutical industry to ensure the safety of their 
products. He never expected his hobby as a birder to intersect with a novel way to test 
for harmful bacteria in the lab. Yet Jay has helped Lilly to forge a new path, and in the 
process, he has helped to protect a threatened marine species and the larger ecosystem 
that depends on it.  
For each batch of injectable medicines and medical devices manufactured across the 
globe, companies must prove that they have been checked—and tested free of—potentially 
life-threatening endotoxins. Water and raw materials used in manufacture must be tested 
as well. Around the world, this process is repeated approximately 70 million times each 
year, the linchpin of quality testing for the pharmaceutical industry. In this process, the 
humble horseshoe crab plays a vital role: its cloudy blue blood can be used to make an assay, known as LAL, that clots readily 
in the presence of endotoxins that could prove fatal if exposed to a person’s bloodstream or spinal fluid . 
To satisfy demand, LAL manufacturers capture, bleed, and release an estimated 500,000 horseshoe crabs along the eastern 
seaboard of the United States. Estimates of how many crabs die as a result are hard to pin down, with estimates ranging 
from five to 30 percent. In Asia, manufacturers use local horseshoe crab populations to make an alternative variant of the 
testing assay, TAL, which is used mainly by pharmaceutical manufacturers in the region. Most of the crabs harvested in Asia are 
ultimately killed after they are bled, and in 2019, the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources 
listed the Asian tri-spine horseshoe crab as an endangered species.
Compounding adversities for the horseshoe crab are decades of overharvesting for use as eel and whelk bait, and fertilizer, 
not to mention devastating habitat loss linked to the commercial development of seashore communities and climate change 
impacts, including more intense storms and rising sea levels that threaten their spawning grounds. In the Delaware Bay, 
home to the world’s largest population of spawning horseshoe crabs, the population has crashed— declining by 90 percent 
over the past two decades.  As a keystone species, the crab is vital to area food webs, and its decline has adversely impacted 
many other animals, notably shorebirds that rely on consuming horseshoe crab eggs to complete their migrations. At least 
one bird species that feeds on the crab’s eggs, the red knot, is now listed as threatened.
Working at Lilly, Jay had been aware of an alternative method to test for endotoxins using a synthetic alternative—
recombinant factor C, or rFC—developed just over 20 years ago. However, lacking an official entry in the United States 
Pharmacopeia (USP), and facing regulatory uncertainty in the eyes of health authorities, it required additional validation 
testing to prove safety for a successful FDA approval. Across the industry there was reluctance to undertake this extra 
validation, as well as concerns about widespread access to the alternative test agent. 
Jay began to wonder if he could make a difference. He had seen his first red knot in the Delaware Bay in 2005, during one of 
many birding adventures. But now, the bird and its plight held more of a personal connection. In 2014, when Jay met Dr. Jack 
Levin, one of the two scientists who discovered the LAL reaction in the first place, he recalled Dr. Levin saying that if ever LAL 
were ever to be unseated from its central role as the main endotoxin test agent, it would be because of the birding community.  
The turning point came in 2013, when Lilly began planning an insulin-manufacturing facility in China, where the native 
horseshoe crab species has been in decline. Concerned about potential future supply problems with LAL—and knowing that 
Lilly is committed to reducing the use of animals in research and testing wherever possible—Jay lobbied and won support 
from two governance committees at Lilly, getting permission to validate the rFC approach. 
Lilly drew a line in the sand in 2016, applying the rFC test to all new products being developed internally. We were the first 
company to submit an application for drug approval to the FDA—Emgality®—to prevent migraine headaches—where the 
final drug will be tested using rFC. In a watershed moment, the FDA approved Emgality in 2018, making it the first medicine 
approved for the market release using rFC. By 2020, Lilly intends to transition 90 percent of our endotoxin tests to the 
synthetic compound. 
Upon implementation of the rFC test across all Lilly manufacturing sites, on the order of several thousand horseshoe crabs 
will be saved in the first year and every year thereafter.  Jay hopes that the ripple effect will be much larger, if the broader 
pharmaceutical industry can be persuaded to adopt the rFC test as a more efficient and cost-effective approach that doesn’t 
require the ethical tradeoffs of harvesting live animals. 
JAY BOLDEN
Lilly MicrobiologistHEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 47• Training Future Scientists: Through the ACS  
 Pharmaceutical Roundtable and IQ Consortium, Lilly  
 collaborated with other pharmaceutical companies  
 to design and implement a green chemistry curriculum  
 for use at colleges and other organizations, which was  
 presented at the 2018 ACS meeting in New Orleans.
• Research Grants:  Through the ACS Pharmaceutical  
 Roundtable, Lilly is active in selecting and funding  
 researchers who are advancing the field of green  
 chemistry. Since 2005, the Pharmaceutical Roundtable  
 has provided more than $2 million in research grants.  
 In 2018, five researchers were funded, including one  
 for green peptide chemistry and one for green Suzuki  
 chemistry. The green peptide process uses fewer  
 solvents than traditional methods to build the  
 peptides—compounds of amino acids that can have  
 medicinal potential. The green Suzuki chemistry model,  
 meanwhile, replaced the use of palladium, a rare earth  
 metal that is critical to reducing vehicle air pollution,  
 with iron, a much more commonly-available metal. 
Manufacturing 
The majority of Lilly’s direct environmental impacts 
are from the manufacturing of medicines. We measure 
and manage these impacts as they relate to energy and 
water use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the 
generation of waste and wastewater throughout the 
manufacturing process. Lilly launched an initial public 
offering (IPO) of Elanco Animal Health Incorporated in 
September 2018, and divested our remaining interest in 
Elanco in March 2019, making it an independent, publicly 
traded company. Elanco was previously a division of Lilly, 
and data from Elanco operations is included in Lilly’s 
manufacturing data through 2018, including the period 
immediately following the IPO. Beginning in 2019, Lilly 
will adjust our environmental performance data baseline 
calculations to reflect the Elanco divestiture.
Lilly recognizes the potential impacts associated with 
climate change and the risks of severe weather events. In 
2017, our manufacturing plant in Puerto Rico sustained 
minor damage from Hurricane Maria. Since then, Lilly 
has completed initial design for a new nine-megawatt 
combined heat and power system at our Puerto Rico 
facility. The project will improve our resiliency to severe 
weather events and our environmental performance.  
See Promoting Cogeneration  for more on our work in 
Puerto Rico. 
ENERGY USE AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
Lilly set aggressive targets for improving energy 
efficiency and thereby reducing our GHG emissions. We 
have an established global energy management program to ensure continuous improvement and advance progress 
towards our goals. Our multi-faceted approach includes:
• Designing for energy efficiency in new or updated  
 processes and facilities; 
• Operating our facilities and equipment efficiently;
• Facilitating the use of advanced energy monitoring  
 and control solutions; 
• Measuring and internally and externally reporting  
 energy use and related GHG emissions;
• Conducting and acting on energy audits and  
 implementing recommended projects to improve  
 energy efficiency;
• Evaluating and incorporating alternative energy  
 sources, new technologies, and best practices for  
 energy use and GHG emission reductions; and 
• Participating in local, regional, and national forums  
 to understand and integrate energy management best  
 practice and to support responsible and cost-effective  
 decision-making and policy development.
To help identify and assess energy management and 
technology best practice, Lilly is an active participant in 
the U.S. EPA’s ENERGY STAR Focus on Energy Efficiency 
in Pharmaceutical Manufacturing partnership. In addition 
to our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction 
efforts, we monitor several categories of Scope 3 GHG 
emissions and are committed to expanding the scope 
and quality of related data and disclosures. In 2018, 
CDP, formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project, 
recognized our efforts with a score of A-, which is 
considered leadership level.
Goals and Trends in 2018 
Lilly’s 2020 goal is to improve both our energy efficiency 
and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity, 
measured per unit of site space, by 20 percent as 
compared to our 2012 baseline. Through 2018, we 
decreased our emissions intensity by 12.7 percent 
compared to our 2012 baseline. Total energy consumption 
was flat compared to 2012, while our energy efficiency 
improved by 0.7 percent. Since 2012, eight of our 11 
largest energy-consuming sites—representing nearly 
88 percent of our total energy consumption—increased 
production, in turn increasing their overall energy use 
per square foot of space. At the same time, several of 
these largest sites improved their energy performance 
as measured per unit of production. While production 
increases present challenges to our performance against 
our goals, we encourage and reward these process 
energy intensity improvements.  
 HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 48PROMOTING COGENERATION  
Cogeneration, which uses combustion to generate electricity on-site while also recovering usable heat, presents another 
opportunity to reduce GHG emissions in our operations. In 2017, we began the design process for a new nine megawatt 
combined heat and power system at our Puerto Rico facility. Since then, Lilly has completed initial design, with major 
construction expected to begin in 2019. This project is expected to result in roughly $6 to 7 million of energy savings annually 
and approximately 15 to 20 percent reduction in GHG emissions for our Puerto Rico facility. We also operate combined heat 
and power systems in Kinsale, Ireland; Sesto, Italy; and Speke, England.Recent energy initiatives include the following:
• Global Engineering  – Developed a new global energy  
 monitoring system for implementation at Lilly’s largest  
 energy consuming sites, which will provide a platform  
 for collection of energy data and real-time  
 identification of energy saving opportunities. This  
 system will be largely implemented in 2019 at  
 our largest sites, including Lilly’s main corporate  
 headquarters, the Lilly Technology Center, and other  
 global manufacturing sites.• Puerto Rico  – Designed and began implementation  
 of a chilled water optimization project at a Puerto  
 Rico manufacturing facility, resulting in projected  
 annual energy savings of $160,000, and installed  
 additional LED lighting.
• Sesto, Italy – Completed projects to increase the use  
 of recovered heat from the combined heat and power  
 system at our manufacturing facility, and installed  
 additional energy monitoring instrumentation to assist  
 in identifying energy savings opportunities.
Renewable Energy 
We will continue to evaluate further use of renewable 
energy to diversify our energy sources, decrease our 
GHG emissions, and lessen our energy use intensity over 
time. In 2018, energy sourced from renewable sources 
accounted for 49,000 MWh. We are members of the Rocky 
Mountain Institute’s Business Renewables Center  and 
are currently evaluating the feasibility of incorporating 
more renewable energy sources.  
WATER USE AND WASTEWATER 
Manufacturing operations account for the majority of 
the water used by Lilly. Our manufacturing locations 
that produce injectable medicines require exceptionally 
high-quality water, while our utility operations use 
water for cooling and to support steam boilers. Some 
sites have updated equipment to use waterless cooling 
systems, and others reclaim water for this purpose. To 
a lesser extent, we consume water for domestic use 
in our offices. Lilly has assessed our water risks, and 
while we generally operate in locations where water 
scarcity and quality risk is low, we will continue our 
focus on conserving water, reducing our intake, and 
improving water quality. Potential future regional water 
risk, unpredictable costs, and climate change concerns 
have further strengthened our commitment to use this 
resource wisely.
In 2018, our efforts received a B rating from the 
CDP’s water program, above the average for Biotech, 
Health Care and Pharmaceutical sector rankings. Our Engineering Technology Center helps Lilly sites around 
the world identify water-saving technologies, and Lilly 
sites can apply for capital project funding through Lilly’s 
dedicated Energy, Waste, and Water Reduction Fund.
Goals and Trends in 2018 
In 2013, we introduced a goal to reduce absolute 
phosphorus emissions in our wastewater discharge by 15 
percent by 2020, as compared to our 2014 baseline. This 
goal addresses an issue that is increasingly important 
to communities, regulators, and investors. In 2018, 
our total wastewater phosphorus emissions declined 
to approximately 83 metric tonnes, a 34.4 percent 
decrease from 2014. Production cleaning changes and 
other manufacturing changes decreased the amount 
of phosphorus discharged at several large sites, thus 
positively impacting our overall progress on this goal. 
With regard to our goal progress, we have successfully 
surpassed our 15 percent phosphorus emission 
reduction goal at the end of 2018. As a result, we are 
setting a stretch goal to reduce an additional 10 percent 
of phosphorus emissions by 2020 using 2018 as the 
new baseline year. We have significant source reduction 
projects planned, including phasing out and replacing 
selected cleaning agents with non-phosphorus-  
based alternatives. 
In 2018, Lilly’s total water intake was 13.9 billion liters, 
an increase of just under four percent from 2012, due 
primarily to production changes.HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 49WASTE 
Lilly generates both nonhazardous and hazardous waste 
from its manufacturing processes. Examples include 
broth from fermentation operations and waste solvent 
from the extraction processes used in the manufacture 
of small molecule pharmaceuticals. Lilly uses the 
following hierarchy of approaches to disposition of waste 
generated across our operations:
• Eliminate or reduce the amount of waste produced; 
• Reuse materials when possible (including closed  
 loop recycling);
• Recycle spent materials to make new products; 
• Recover energy from waste (through combustion),  
 where possible; 
• Treat waste to reduce toxicity and volume; and, 
• Send waste to landfill (as a disposal method of last  
 resort, or when legally required).  
 
Goals and Trends in 2018 
In 2013, we introduced a goal to achieve a 20 percent 
improvement in waste efficiency by 2020, as compared to 
our 2012 baseline. We also aim to increase our recycling 
rate above 70 percent and decrease our waste-to-landfill 
below 10 percent of our total waste generated. For 
purposes of tracking progress toward our waste goals, 
“total waste” does not include material that is directly 
reused for other purposes, because the bulk of the 
“wastes” we generate is directly reused.
Lilly generated 206,000 metric tonnes of waste (including 
material directly reused) in 2018, representing a 
decrease of 28 percent compared to 2012, and a 30 
percent decrease compared to 2017 amounts. We were 
able to designate 152,000 tonnes of this waste for reuse, 
much of it as fertilizer. After reuse, 54,000 metric tonnes 
of waste remained.
With regard to progress toward our goal, we have 
successfully surpassed our 20 percent waste efficiency 
improvement target, as our waste efficiency improved 
by 34 percent between 2012 and the end of 2018. Our 
recycling rate increased in 2018 to 55 percent, up from 
47 percent in 2012, and we sent 21 percent of our waste 
to landfills, compared to 28 percent waste sent to landfill 
in 2012. As we have successfully achieved the waste 
efficiency aspect of our 2020 goal, for the next two years, 
we will focus primarily on achieving our recycling and 
waste-to-landfill targets. ENCOURAGING ECO-EFFICIENCY ACROSS  
OUR OPERATIONS 
We established the Energy, Waste and Water Reduction 
Fund in 2006 to encourage projects that reduce our 
overall environmental impacts. The fund supports 
projects that demonstrate the greatest potential for 
reductions in emissions and energy use, and that are 
not covered by local capital budgets. Since 2006, Lilly 
has invested more than $45.5 million in this fund, 
enabling the implementation of 174 projects, which all 
told, garnered more than $22 million in savings. These 
projects collectively save more than one trillion BTUs 
of energy annually, avoiding more than 121,000 metric 
tonnes of GHG emissions each year, measured as carbon 
dioxide equivalents (CO2e).
We actively recognize innovation and excellence in 
HSE management by granting annual HSE awards. 
Nomination for these awards represents a significant 
accomplishment on behalf of project teams, and we 
seek to reward teams that have shown an exemplary 
commitment to helping Lilly achieve energy and GHG 
emissions reduction goals. In addition to criteria such as 
a project’s energy and GHG reductions, we consider the 
potential to replicate the approach in other locations.HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 501 Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology and other factors. Some segments do not add up to totals due to rounding.
2 In 2015, adjustments were made to data for all years to reflect the acquisition of animal health operations from Lohmann (closed April 30, 2014) and Novartis (closed  
 January 15, 2015).
3  Data includes GHG emissions and energy use related to manufacturing facilities and other entities with more than $50,000 annual energy spend. Data for other locations is  
 estimated based on square footage.
4  Data included in Scope 3 emissions disclosure contain assumptions and estimation as described here: Employee business travel (personal and rental cars, taxi, rail, and air  
 travel) uses WRI GHG Protocol Cross-Sector Tool averages for fuel types, vehicle types, aircraft types, and aircraft travel distances; employee commuting uses EPA average for  
 fuel types, vehicle types, and commuting distances; contracted product transportation and distribution is based on Lilly’s U.S. distribution footprint and extrapolated for  
 distribution outside the United States; waste generated in operations uses Lilly-specific waste carbon content estimates for waste incineration and EPA’s WARM version 12  
 emission factors for landfilled and land-applied waste, and assumes transportation related emissions only for certain land-applied organic waste types. Scope 3 data does not  
 include emissions from sales force travel using company vehicles, use of Lilly owned aircraft, on-site waste incineration, or product distribution with Lilly owned vehicles, as  
 these are included in the Scope 1 data above.
5 Energy consumption is the total of direct energy consumption and indirect energy consumption, as defined in these footnotes, and does not include mobile sources.
6  Data includes energy from combustion of coal, fuel oil, natural gas, and liquid propane.
7  Data includes energy from purchased electricity, steam, and chilled water.
8 “Water intake” is the total amount of water coming into a site, including water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility.  
 It includes water used in processes, utilities, and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy  
 regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely  
 for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. Totals include a small amount of rainwater  
 intake not included in other water intake subcategories. Lilly does not generally collect water data from small locations that house primarily administrative activities such as  
 sales and marketing offices unless they are co-located at a Lilly manufacturing or research facility.
9 Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without extensive processing. Examples include coal ash reused for mine reclamation or road base,  
 and mycelia and urea reused for fertilizer.
10 Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority.  
 The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in harm to people or the environment.
11 “Significant spill” in this report refers to any unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of a substance  
 that resulted in damage to the environment (i.e., human health, aquatic life, or wildlife) or a material event requiring reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Damage means the actual or imminent alteration of the environment so as to render the environment harmful, detrimental, or injurious.
12 This data includes that of Lilly’s former subsidiary, Elanco Animal Health, including the period immediately following Elanco’s IPO, approximately the fourth quarter of 2018.  
 Beginning in 2019, Lilly will adjust our environmental performance data baseline calculations to reflect the Elanco divestiture.2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2)  
(metric tonnes CO2e)1,571,000 1,610,000 1,580,000 1,570,000 1,470,000 1,470,000 1,380,000
 Scope 1 435,000 484,000 460,000 478,000 464,000 482,000 392,000
 Scope 2 1,136,000 1,130,000 1,120,000 1,097,000 1,009,000 985,000 983,000
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (related to goal)
(metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet)357.1 58.1 58.5 55.9 52.2 52.1 49.8
 Scope 3 Emissions (not included in metric  
 tonnes above) (metric tonnes CO2e)4305,000 300,000 289,000 302,000 294,000 259,000 283,000
ENERGY USE
Energy Consumption (million BTUs)511,000,000 11,500,000 11,400,000 11,500,000 11,100,000 11,400,000 11,000,000
Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet)3453 468 474 460 448 459 450
Direct Energy Consumption  (million BTUs)64,210,000 4,560,000 4,410,000 4,590,000 4,390,000 4,750,000 4,390,000
Indirect Energy Consumption  (million BTUs)76,830,000 6,960,000 7,020,000 6,890,000 6,730,000 6,620,000 6,640,000
WATER USE
Water Intake (billion liters)813.4 13.7 15.0 14.2 14.5 13.8 13.9
Phosphorus emissions to wastewater (metric tonnes) -- -- 127 133 170 159 83
WASTE
Total Waste Generation  (metric tonnes) 285,000 310,000 295,000 251,000 297,000 294,000 206,000
Total Waste Generation not Including Reuse  
(for recycling goal) (metric tonnes)974,000 75,000 89,000 112,000 90,000 60,000 54,000
WASTE DISPOSITION
 Recycled (includes combustion with energy recovery)  
 (metric tonnes)34,300 32,500 46,700 57,000 54,000 33,300 29,800
 Treated (includes combustion without energy  
 recovery) (metric tonnes)18,700 19,900 30,100 26,500 23,900 16,600 13,100
 Landfilled (metric tonnes) 20,700 22,600 12,000 28,300 11,800 10,500 11,200
Waste Recycling Rate 47% 43% 53% 51% 60% 55% 55%
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances108 5 3 5 5 6 6
Number of Significant Spills110 0 0 0 0 0 0
Environmental Fines Paid (USD) $732 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0
ENERGY, WASTE, WATER, AND NATURAL RESOURCE USE REDUCTION FUND
Expenditures (million USD) $1.1 $1.8 $1.6 $1.7 $0.9 $3.3 $3.2LILLY’S ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE, 2012-20181,2,12HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 51Supply Chain
We rely on our suppliers—including those who supply 
us with materials for research and development, active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), and other contract 
manufacturers—to ensure the availability of our human 
and animal medicines. As we have broadened our 
manufacturing base and integrated new acquisitions into 
our operations, we have taken significant steps to reduce 
our exposure to the risks inherent in managing a global 
supply chain. Lilly continues to strengthen our ongoing 
efforts to monitor our supply chain for performance on 
HSE indicators. We have also taken steps to educate 
and engage our suppliers more directly on HSE issues, 
and we have taken a more active role in helping our 
suppliers build expertise around HSE topics. This 
includes our ongoing work as part of the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), a non-profit business 
membership organization founded in 2006, which counts 
Lilly as one of its inaugural members. In 2018, Lilly HSE 
professionals led two PSCI committees and seven Lilly 
HSE professionals served on PSCI’s committees.
GOVERNANCE OF SUPPLY CHAIN AT LILLY 
PSCI, with its member companies, created and maintain 
the Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible 
Supply Chain Management  (the PSCI Principles). The 
PSCI Principles provide our industry with consistent 
supplier performance standards in the areas of ethics, 
labor, health and safety, the environment, and related 
management systems. At Lilly, we have aligned several 
codes, policies and procedures with the PSCI Principles, 
including the following:
• Lilly’s Global Product Stewardship Standard, which  
 details our approach to managing risk across the  
 value chain and directly addresses our supply chain  
 due diligence and supplier HSE risk assessment and  
 management practices 
• Lilly Supplier Code of Business Conduct, applicable to  
 all suppliers 
• Relevant procurement standards 
• Standard contract language applicable to providers of  
 contract manufacturing services
Lilly manufacturing procurement contracts ask that 
suppliers support the PSCI Principles and conform to 
the HSE expectations outlined in our Supplier Code of 
Business Conduct. Standard contract language also 
requires that manufacturing suppliers agree to submit, 
if requested, to audits that assess compliance with the 
principles. Lilly has a formal process for targeting those 
suppliers that we believe represent the greatest potential 
HSE risk for this additional scrutiny. We intervene 
quickly when we become aware of serious HSE issues. If a supplier in question does not take swift corrective 
action, as is our expectation, we reserve the right to halt 
production or terminate contracts. HSE considerations 
are integrated into Lilly’s formal, annual process for 
evaluating manufacturing suppliers.
ASSESSING CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS AND 
RESEARCH LABORATORIES 
For more than a decade, Lilly HSE professionals 
have worked to assess and strengthen performance 
at the external research laboratories and contract 
manufacturing organizations (CMOs) with which we do 
business. We use a standard auditing methodology and 
reporting framework for addressing risk, and a summary 
of results is included in the quarterly reports received 
by the board of directors’ public policy and compliance 
committee. We designate suppliers that are critical to 
our business as “suppliers of focus,” and take a special 
interest in their capabilities and performance. In 2018, we 
conducted onsite audits at 33 CMO sites.
OTHER SUPPLIER EDUCATION AND ENGAGEMENT 
Lilly is an active PSCI member and our HSE professionals 
have led or participated in a number of PSCI sponsored 
webinars and in-country events. In 2018, Lilly 
professionals participated in supplier capability training 
in China and India, building on work in 2017 conducting 
third-party auditor training.  
Sales and Marketing 
Our sales and marketing affiliates around the world 
develop goals and implement improvement strategies 
as part of our GREENDirections  program, which 
focuses on fleet fuel economy and GHG emissions, 
office energy conservation, and waste reduction. Each 
year, our affiliates look for opportunities to enhance 
their environmental performance by identifying and 
implementing new projects and setting targets.
On the road, Lilly optimizes the fuel efficiency of our 
sales force fleet by choosing vehicles with better fuel 
economy, and we promote driving and work practices that 
emphasize safety and fuel savings. These efforts, in turn, 
also reduce the GHG emissions associated with our sales 
fleet. Lilly centrally manages vehicle selection across 
the European Union and across the United States, which 
improves efficiency while enabling us to implement 
strong safety and environmental standards.  
 
 HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 52Packaging and 
Transportation 
We consider many factors in selecting product packaging, 
including sustainability considerations, such as materials 
use and recyclability. Pharmaceutical packaging must 
meet stringent regulatory and internal standards. In 
some cases, this prevents us from using recycled content 
in packaging, as is the case with containers that come 
into direct contact with our products, where we require 
virgin materials be used to deter counterfeiting. Where 
we can, we continually seek to improve packaging design 
to reduce the amount of packaging used, include  
lower-impact materials, and ensure recyclability. Our 
Product Stewardship Standard helps set expectations  
for these efforts.
In transporting our products, we have made strides in 
reducing the volume of empty space in the packages we 
ship, which has increased our overall fleet efficiency. 
Additionally, we have achieved GHG emission reductions 
by changing the shipping mode for some of our 
pharmaceutical products from air to ocean. In 2018, we 
shipped 50 percent of our product via ocean, resulting in  
reduced GHG emissions. Another benefit of ocean shipping 
is an overall reduction in packaging used because less 
protective packaging is required during transport.
Product End-of-Life 
Unlike many consumer products that can be recycled, 
or are composed of materials that can be reclaimed at 
the end of their usefulness, medicines are by nature 
different. Public health regulations often prohibit the use 
of recovered materials from pharmaceutical products like 
those produced by Lilly.
Lilly continues to work with customers, industry 
partners, and public health officials to address these 
product end-of-life issues. Our Product Stewardship 
Governance Committee meets quarterly and regularly 
engages with our leadership to better integrate product 
stewardship efforts into our business. We promote policy 
decisions that are efficient, effective, and that protect 
both human health and the environment. We also support 
educating patients and caregivers on proper disposal of 
medicines, as well as disposal of syringes, needles, and 
other sharps used in home settings. We communicate 
this information to patients through product user 
manuals, and through The Lilly Answers Center, a hotline 
that answers frequently asked questions.
We are actively involved in the Pharmaceutical Product 
Stewardship Work Group , a U.S.-based membership 
association of manufacturers of prescription and over-the-counter medicines that supports compliance 
with U.S. household disposal regulations for unused 
medicines and sharps. We also engage with other 
industry stakeholders in the European Union, such as 
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries 
and Associations (EFPIA) , as well as in Canada (Health 
Products Stewardship Association) .
Pharmaceuticals in the 
Environment (PiE)
After they are used to improve human and animal health, 
medicines enter our natural environment through the 
normal biological processes of waste elimination. They 
may also enter the environment from improper disposal 
of unused products or through manufacturing discharges. 
Residues of these medicines may pass through waste and 
sewage treatment facilities and enter rivers, streams, or 
lakes. While reported concentrations of pharmaceuticals 
in the environment (PiE) are usually extremely low, their 
presence and biological potency raise questions about 
potential risks to humans and the environment. 
Reports such as the World Health Organization’s 
Pharmaceuticals in Drinking Water (2012) and the multiple 
publications following an extensive, three-year joint 
study by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and 
U.S. Geological Survey on the presence of contaminants 
in drinking water and surface water have concluded 
that the concentrations of pharmaceuticals in drinking 
water are unlikely to have a direct impact on human 
health and aquatic life. However, some health advocates 
and researchers are concerned that low concentrations 
of antibiotics in the environment comprise an indirect 
threat to human health by promoting the development of 
antimicrobial resistant genes in bacteria. Questions have 
also been raised about the impact of the pharmaceutical 
supply chain, especially when those suppliers are located 
in countries that may lack rigorous environmental 
protection standards.
Lilly is committed to ensuring that the active 
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used in our products do 
not have a negative impact on the environment whether 
exposure is associated with end use or manufacturing. We 
are committed to understanding the public’s questions and 
concerns related to PiE.
GOVERNANCE OF P iE AT LILLY 
Due to the importance of PiE issues to Lilly and our 
stakeholders, we have established a PiE Governance 
Committee that reports to our executive-level Global 
HSE Committee. The PiE Governance Committee sets 
strategic direction related to PiE and provides long-
range oversight for the program that controls active HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 53pharmaceutical discharges from manufacturing sites, 
our Lilly Aquatic Exposure Guideline (LAEG) program. 
The LAEG program determines containment needed 
at our manufacturing sites to protect environmental 
species living in downstream surface waters in 
addition to humans and wildlife using those surface 
waters. This program has been in place for many years 
for Lilly facilities. For outsourced segments of our 
manufacturing processes, we have begun to implement 
our LAEG program with contract manufacturers 
(third party suppliers) of targeted products and active 
pharmaceutical ingredients.
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA AND RISK ASSESSMENTS  
FOR LILLY API s 
We assess our medicines for potential environmental 
impacts, ensuring that they meet regulatory 
requirements and internal standards before introducing 
our products to markets. We use procedures 
recommended by U.S., Canadian and European 
regulatory agencies for identifying and minimizing 
risks from residues of our products in the environment, 
and for determining predicted no-effect concentration 
values for our medicines. We also make information 
on the environmental hazards and impacts of our 
pharmaceutical products available through product 
safety data sheets  and through the FASS  product 
database published by the Swedish Pharmaceutical 
Trade Association.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY OF MANUFACTURING 
To study the overall impact on the local environment, 
our manufacturing site in Kinsale, Ireland, initiated a 
continuous evaluation of aquatic habitat quality in 1978. 
The Kinsale Harbour Study is maintained by the National 
University of Ireland Galway and is one of the longest 
studies of marine coastline conducted anywhere in the 
world. The evaluation has shown no evidence of an adverse 
impact from the Lilly wastewater discharge point on any 
aspect of habitat quality in the study area. Results have 
been published in peer-reviewed scientific publications 
and several project reports. This project continues to 
support academic research for university students.EXTERNAL COLLABORATIONS 
We continue to partner with industry, academia, and 
governments to improve both our understanding of, and 
our response to, PiE. Among ongoing efforts in 2018, Lilly 
scientists and technical experts have:
• Supported the Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship plan in  
 collaboration with EFPIA and the Inter-Association  
 Initiative on PiE, including a proposal for extended  
 environmental risk assessment evaluations, and a  
 model for wastewater control limits for pharmaceutical  
 residues at manufacturing facilities; 
• Reviewed articles in scientific journals, presented at  
 conferences and workshops, and participated in  
 meetings concerning the safety of pharmaceutical  
 residues in water, in collaboration with the U.S.  
 EPA, and the Society of Environmental Toxicology  
 and Chemistry;
• Served on technical committees addressing topics  
 related to PiE for industry trade associations such  
 as EFPIA; and, 
• Engaged with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain  
 Initiative (PSCI) team developing training for external  
 manufacturing partners on risk-based approaches to  
 managing APIs in manufacturing effluents. Lilly  
 delivered four presentations on PiE at on-location  
 capability training for partners in India and China in  
 2018. As a PSCI member company, Lilly conducts  
 health, safety, and environment assessments of its  
 supply chain partners where environmental  
 performance, including PiE, is evaluated.
About Elanco Animal Health
In September 2018, Lilly launched an initial public 
offering of Elanco, thereby making it an independently 
traded company. Elanco provides comprehensive 
products and knowledge services to improve the health of 
food animals and pets in more than 90 countries around 
the world. 
IMPROVED METHODOLOGIES FOR ASSESSING ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS 
Lilly participates in the Intelligence-led Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment project (iPiE project) , a program 
supported by the Innovative Medicines Initiative, a public-private partnership coordinated by the European Commission and 
the industry group EFPIA, in collaboration with universities and other research organizations, public bodies, and nonprofit 
groups. The iPiE project develops frameworks, methods, databases, and software tools to support environmental testing 
for new pharmaceuticals and prioritizes the testing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) that were approved for use 
before 2006 and that remain in use today. The frameworks draw upon existing data on the environmental impact of APIs, 
toxicological studies, and computer models. Our current commitment to the project runs through 2019.HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 54PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE USE OF ANTIBIOTICS IN 
FOOD-PRODUCING ANIMALS 
Antibiotics, including those manufactured by Elanco, are 
one way, but not the only way, that farmers keep their 
animals healthy. Feeding animals carefully balanced 
diets to strengthen their immune systems and providing 
clean, comfortable, well-maintained housing are also 
important. But because bacteria and other microbes 
are constantly evolving and found everywhere in the 
environment, it’s virtually impossible to prevent animals 
from being exposed to disease. This is true whether 
animals are kept on open ranges or housed indoors.
Antibiotic resistance occurs naturally over time, as 
bacteria develop resistant genes that are then passed on 
to other bacteria. This natural process can be magnified 
by the misuse and overuse of antibiotics. At Elanco, 
we believe that the concern over reduced effectiveness 
of antibiotics is real and needs to be addressed. All 
those involved—the human, animal, and environmental 
health communities—must take responsibility and work 
together to develop long-term, responsible solutions.
For our part, Elanco is committed to bringing greater 
clarity to issues around antibiotic stewardship and 
engaging in collectively shaping science-based 
recommendations on responsible use, animal welfare, 
and the long-term sustainability of the food system. 
Elanco Animal Health has updated its commitment 
to fighting antimicrobial resistance, which includes 
promoting responsible antibiotic use practices and 
policies while developing alternatives to medically 
important antibiotics (a subset of which include critically 
important antibiotics to human health). 
ELANCO’S ANTIBIOTIC STEWARDSHIP PLAN
The Antimicrobial Resistance Challenge, led by the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and U.S. 
Health and Human Services (HHS), is a yearlong effort to 
accelerate the fight against antimicrobial resistance with  
action across governments and industries. As part of this 
effort, Elanco has committed to: 
• Invest at least half of Elanco’s food animal research  
 and development budget in projects dedicated to   developing alternatives to shared-class antibiotics;
• Increase veterinary and professional oversight  
 access in countries with limited resources through  
 new partnerships;
• Expand data collection and analytics to inform animal  
 health professionals on best practices, and;
• Encourage vaccination and nutrition programs that  
 reduce the need for medically important antibiotics  
 by preventing disease.
Elanco’s commitment—outlined within the CDC’s 
Antimicrobial Resistance Challenge materials—is the 
next step in its eight-point antibiotic stewardship plan. 
Since the inception of the antibiotic stewardship plan in 
2015, Elanco has made tangible progress, including  
the following:
• Changed nearly 100 labels to remove growth  
 promotion claims from our medically important  
 antibiotic molecules globally, even if the practice  
 is allowed by local regulation;
• Completed submission of 67 labels to move  
 products from over-the-counter use to be under  
 the oversight of a veterinarian in the countries where  
 over-the-counter uses remained and veterinary  
 infrastructure exists;
• Brought more than 15 antibiotic alternatives into  
 our pipeline to help producers replace antibiotics  
 when possible;
• Convened a landmark, first-of-its-kind One Health  
 Antibiotic Stewardship Summit for more than 200  
 global animal protein industry and food chain leaders  
 and declared priorities to help combat antimicrobial  
 resistance as part of efforts to produce a sustainable  
 food supply, and;
• Joined with 200 other companies and 700,000  
 veterinarians worldwide to undersign Health for  
 Animals’ “Commitments and Actions on Antibiotic  
 Use,” which outlines the five guiding responsible use  
 principles of the animal medicines industry.
It is of utmost importance we address the complex challenge of antimicrobial resistance and 
preserve the effectiveness of medicines for people and animals. Supporting the CDC and HHS 
effort is an important step in reaffirming our commitment to responsible antibiotic usage and 
veterinary oversight capacity around the world. This is a global issue, and any solution will 
require global participation across all sectors of human and animal health .” 
- JEFF SIMMONS  |   PRESIDENT AND CEO, ELANCO“HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 55Lilly focuses on creating a companywide culture where best-in-class safety practices are intuitively and consistently followed. 
To do this, we assess and continuously strive to improve our safety performance across our entire enterprise. We believe this 
ongoing commitment promotes the well-being of our employees and helps safeguard communities where we operate.
At Lilly, we measure both leading and lagging indicators when assessing our overall safety performance. We have found 
that tracking leading—or predictive indicators—such as ergonomic risk, safety culture surveys, and vehicle safety 
training contributes greatly to our company safety culture. Using these indicators in conjunction with measures of lagging 
indicators—such as our recordable and lost-time injury rates—we are able to paint a comprehensive picture of the areas that 
most influence employee safety across Lilly. This approach allows us to both influence change where needed, and track our 
safety progress in concrete ways over time.
Since we introduced our global safety goals in 2007, our total recordable injury and illness rate has declined by nearly 45 
percent, equivalent to the prevention of hundreds of injuries and illnesses to Lilly employees across the globe. In 2013, we 
established new goals for the three occupational safety metrics we track: recordable injuries, lost-time injuries, and motor 
vehicle collision rate. These goals were developed to help reduce our injury rates across a seven-year period, 2014  
through 2020.
In 2017, Lilly established new leading indicators focused on office ergonomic risk and motor vehicle safety designed to 
influence behavior change and reduce company injury and illness rates. These metrics are shared with the executive 
committee quarterly, emphasizing the importance of maintaining an employee safety culture and minimizing risk.EMPLOYEE SAFETY
Promoting a Culture of 
Safety at Lilly
We know that to reach our goals for safety performance, 
Lilly must continue to instill and promote a best-in-class 
safety culture. We use a well-known model—the DuPont™ 
Bradley Curve™—to measure our progress, and we will 
continue to use this model in the foreseeable future. In 
2018, we launched a number of key initiatives to continue 
improving our performance in this area, including:
• Developing our first draft of safety culture  
 requirements to be included in our global Health,  
 Safety, and Environment (HSE) standards that apply  
 across the company;
• Collaborating with external partners to develop a new  
 training course on safety management fundamentals  
 for new leaders at Lilly;• Completing training/education for all levels of  
 leadership within the pharmaceutical development  
 organization to improve HSE leadership and culture;
• Piloting an advanced initiative working with an external  
 partner to improve informal risk assessment and  
 peer-to-peer conversations to improve operational  
 safety at the task level;
• Continuing expansion of existing behavioral-based  
 safety efforts and tools across the organization that  
 focus on reducing human error and further  
 engagement of employees and leadership; and  
• Developing and executing safety culture improvement  
 plans for manufacturing, research and development,  
 and sales affiliate sites.  
 
 
HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 56Reducing the Potential  
for Serious Injury
While the most common work-related injuries are 
covered by our safety programs, we also have committed 
to systematically address infrequent but severe events, 
where the consequences can be potentially life-altering 
or fatal. To prevent such serious injuries and fatalities 
(SIFs), we subscribe to the following model:
• Train employees at all levels on the SIF prevention  
 model and key SIF definitions
• Measure SIF events and potential SIF events across  
 the entire company
• Identify and mitigate SIF precursors
• Integrate SIF prevention into existing  
 business processes
In 2018, as part of a continuous improvement effort, 
we created a global SIF team responsible for analyzing potential SIF events and precursors. The SIF team 
analyzes event data, always focusing on reducing the 
probability of employees’ exposure to high-risk hazards. 
Specific actions conducted in 2018 include:
• Conducting workshops where employees could voice  
 their opinions and identify improvements related  
 to SIF;
• Sharing near-miss events across the globe with an  
 emphasis on learning and prevention;
• Conducting forklift and dock safety assessments to  
 identify and mitigate SIF precursors; and
• Approving a global plan to upgrade engineering  
 controls for dock loading and unloading operations.
Lilly also participated in, and presented company 
accomplishments at, SIF prevention conferences in 2018. 
These opportunities allowed Lilly to benchmark our 
results with peer companies.
LILLY’S SAFETY PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE
YEARRECORDABLE
INJURY AND
ILLNESS RATELOST-TIME
INJURY AND
ILLNESS RATE
2020 GOAL 0.70 0.25
2018 0.79 0.27
2017 0.82 0.28
2016 0.93 0.32
2015 0.88 0.27
2007 1.44 0.60YEAR MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE3
2020 GOAL 12%
2018 15%
2017 15%
2016 16%
2015 16%
2007 25%
1 Refers to non-motor vehicle injuries resulting in abrasion, contusion, and laceration.
2 Refers to ergonomic risks (posture and/or force, repetition, duration of tasks) which increase the likelihood of a sprain or strain.
3 A new goal for measuring motor vehicle collisions was established in 2015.
Note: Reporting data is fluid and dynamic, and slight discrepancies from year-to-year are the result of minor updates or recharacterizations of previously-recorded data.TOTAL
RECORDABLE
INJURIES BY
ACCIDENT
CATEGORY
2018Struck by / Caught between1
Ergonomic Risk2 
Motor Vehicle Collisions3
Slip / Trip/ Fall
Other LOST/hyphen.caseTIME
INJURIES
BY ACCIDENT
CATEGORY
201812%20%
43%
12%
13%16%9%
28%37%10%HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 57
Sales and Marketing Safety
At Lilly, sales and marketing employees represent 
approximately 35 percent of our global workforce. 
Their jobs require them to spend significant time 
driving, exposing them to the risk of accidents which 
are challenging to mitigate. In 2009, we launched a 
motor vehicle safety program, HSEDirections , designed 
specifically for the thousands of Lilly employees who are 
on the road every day, visiting physicians, hospitals, clinics, 
and other customers. Our HSEDirections  investment 
has resulted in a decrease over time in motor vehicle 
collisions, and, consequently, a significant reduction in 
motor vehicle-related injuries. In 2018, our motor safety 
vehicle rate essentially stayed steady. As part of ongoing 
efforts to improve motor vehicle safety, in 2018 we:
• Continued to monitor our motor vehicle collision rate  
 year-over-year, which has shown a 35 percent  
 decrease in collision rate since 2010;
• Defined and implemented leading indicator metrics,  
 which are reviewed quarterly at the executive level; and
• Implemented the “Drive Safe, Arrive Safe” program to  
 help reduce distracted driving and the devastating  
 effect it can have on individuals and their loved ones.Employee Well-Being  
at Lilly
We want our company to be a place where our employees 
enjoy meaningful work, build successful careers, and 
make important contributions to society. We work 
to foster a healthy, vibrant work environment, while 
also supporting our people in the important time that 
they spend at home, with their families, and in their 
communities. We believe this holistic focus helps us to 
all be at our best—more collaborative, more creative, 
and more engaged—which, in turn, helps our employees 
deliver on our company promise to make life better  
for patients.
At Lilly, we take a broad view of well-being that 
emphasizes multiple dimensions of each employee’s life. 
We focus on creating a healthy workplace, promoting 
physical wellness and behavioral health, improving 
financial literacy, and maintaining social connectedness. 
While local cultures, regulations, and market dynamics 
influence our offerings in each country, our employee 
well-being strategy is global. 
LILLY’S my BESTLIFE  EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PROGRAM
A healthy workplace  is 
one where employees and 
managers collaborate on 
processes to protect and 
promote the health, safety, 
and well-being of everyone.
Social connectedness 
refers to the relationships 
integral to well-being. 
Your social network can 
offer support, happiness, 
contentment, a sense of 
belonging, and can help 
during difficult times.
Financial literacy  refers to the skill and knowledge that help you make 
informed and effective decisions with all of your financial resources.Behavioral health 
focuses on preventing 
or intervening in mental 
illness, like depression 
or anxiety, as well as 
substance abuse or 
other addictions.Physical wellness  
promotes proper care 
of your body for optimal 
health and functioning.HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 58WELL-BEING IN THE UNITED STATES
In the United States, our myBestLife  program offers 
a set of tools and resources to help employees better 
manage their health, as well as identify those things that 
can help individuals live a healthier and more active life. 
Lilly offers health plan coverage to employees and their 
eligible dependents, and our coverage for preventive 
health services go well beyond the requirements 
established under federal healthcare reform.
At our Indianapolis headquarters, two medical clinics 
allow employees to have annual preventive screenings 
and routine lab work on-site. We have several fitness 
centers available as well, offering individual and group 
exercise. When employees travel, we provide access to 
a national network of more than 9,000 fitness centers 
located across the United States. We partner with our 
food service vendors to offer a wide range of healthier 
dining choices and snacks—some of which are subsidized 
by Lilly. We provide showers and bike racks for the more 
than 150 Indianapolis employees who commute to work 
by bicycle. 
Other efforts to support our employees’ physical and 
emotional health in the United States include access 
to a dietitian, frequent fitness challenges, and a 
comprehensive employee assistance program. Across 
the United States, we have also designated all sites 
smoke-free. New parents are eligible for a generous 
parental leave, two on-site child development centers 
at corporate headquarters, back-up care options, and 
parenting education opportunities. New mothers receive 
maternity leave benefits and access to lactation rooms. 
We promote financial well-being through a variety of 
online financial tools and financial advisory programs, 
and we offer individual financial counseling on-site or by 
phone. Many of the benefit offerings also are available to 
spouses, domestic partners, and qualified dependents 
to promote well-being for the entire family, not just the 
person directly employed by Lilly.
WELLNESS IN OUR INTERNATIONAL SITES
Lilly affiliate sites around the world offer extensive 
wellness programs, aimed at providing a holistic 
approach to employee health, safety, and well-being. 
These integrated programs feature safety culture 
messages and initiatives, and in some sites, integrate 
diversity and inclusion programs as well. 
Some examples from our manufacturing sites include:
• The Sesto plant in Italy provides a holistic, integrated  
 approach to employee health, safety, and well-being  
 through their program Welly . Initiatives include a focus  
 on offering healthier food options for night shift  
 workers, conferences on sleep hygiene, fitness classes   at the on-site fitness center, and an on-site  
 kindergarten with flexible hours. 
• The Fegersheim plant in France completed  
 construction of a new fitness center, BWell , in early  
 2018, designed to promote health and well-being  
 through employee exercise and relaxation. The site  
 hosted monthly educational sessions on well-being,  
 nutrition, and physical and mental health—including  
 a diabetes screening day, ergonomic awareness,  
 melanoma screenings, and sleep hygiene presentation,  
 among other topics. 
• The Alcobendas plant in Spain operates an integrated  
 employee well-being program, Naturally , designed  
 to increase health and injury prevention, build morale  
 and workplace participation, and improve quality of  
 life for employees. As part of their well-being focus,  
 nutrition and physical activity plans are available for  
 employees, supported by healthier choices in the  
 on-site cafeteria. Physiotherapy is also available at  
 the facility for employees, and in 2018, the site hosted  
 a conference on stroke identification and prevention. 
• The Kinsale plant in Ireland ran its sixth annual  
 Live4Life  week-long celebration in 2018, dedicated  
 to approaching health, safety, and well-being from  
 a holistic, integrated perspective. Events included  
 a wide variety of topics focused on work-life balance,  
 physical activity, mental well-being, and healthy eating.  
 Kinsale has integrated diversity and inclusion into its  
 programming, spotlighting its positive effect on  
 employee self-esteem, work-life balance, career  
 development, mental and physical health, social  
 connectedness, and belonging. 
• The Suzhou plant in China completed an employee-  
 wide well-being survey in 2018, which identified  
 work-life balance and nutritional, physical, and  
 personal wellness to be among the top areas of  
 interest for employees.
• The Erl Wood research facility in the United Kingdom  
 has developed a holistic approach to well-being  
 through its program Get Active, Be Healthy, Live  
 Well!  Featuring activities and programs from the  
 human resources and health, safety, and environment  
 departments, the program encourages employees  
 to be active and connected to one another. Focus  
 areas include diversity and inclusion, fitness and  
 nature exploration challenges, outdoor meeting  
 spaces, on-site health screens, and an emotional  
 well-being online tool.
• Lilly’s global business services center in Cork,  
 Ireland, offered a series of workplace wellness  
 events in 2018, including psychosocial risk  HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT   |  PAGE 59 assessments and well-being surveys for  
 employees. Results from these informed both site  
 and function-specific wellness action plans.  
 Activities included guest speakers on topics  
 such as resilience and mental agility, financial  
 well-being, and nutrition and physical activity,  
 as well as workplace ergonomic assessments.  
 The site introduced a healthier daily lunch option  
 in the cafeteria, and promoted the “Lilly Lap,” a  
 two-kilometer route around the business park  
 where employees can walk or run. ANTI-CORRUPTION
INTRO  |  HUMAN RIGHTS   |  LABOR   |  HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT  |  ANTI-CORRUPTIONFor more than 140 years, Lilly’s people have approached 
our company’s business with a deep sense of responsibility 
to all of our stakeholders. Our actions, now as then, 
are grounded in our core company values of integrity, 
excellence, and respect for people. Recognizing our efforts 
to operate responsibly—including our strong ethics and 
compliance program—the Ethisphere Institute has honored 
Lilly as one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” three 
years in a row—2017,2018, and 2019. 
We train all of our employees in ethical business practices 
and have systems in place to detect violations of laws, 
regulations, and company policies, including those related 
to anti-corruption. We have developed—and we continue to 
refine and improve—an anti-corruption program designed 
to promote ethical conduct and instill a culture of integrity. 
In this section, we discuss our commitment to work against 
corruption in all its forms. We provide details about our 
code of business conduct, our compliance management 
systems, and our training programs—all of which reinforce 
ethical behavior and help avoid corruption and other 
unacceptable activities. This section also highlights our 
efforts to be more transparent about our operations, 
including our clinical trials, educational grants, and 
payments we make to physicians.ANTI-CORRUPTION   |  PAGE 61At Lilly, our policies, our code of business conduct (which we call The Red Book ), our compliance management systems, our 
training programs, and our communications work together to reinforce ethical behavior. We have implemented programs 
designed to promote ethical conduct and foster a culture of trust and integrity, which we continue to nurture and improve. We 
train all of our employees in ethical business practices and have systems in place to detect potential violations of the law and 
company policies, as well as to correct processes to avoid errors going forward. Our ethics and compliance program includes 
deliberate assessment of risks, training, and communications designed to prevent issues from arising, as well as reporting, 
auditing, and monitoring to detect potential compliance gaps. We also have a robust investigation process, and we develop 
corrective and preventive action plans to address issues we identify. We have aligned our bioethics work with our ethics and 
compliance program to reflect our evolving business as well as the external environment in which we operate. And, we have 
expanded and centralized our anti-corruption due diligence work to focus on greater consistency across the globe. ETHICS, COMPLIANCE,  
AND GOVERNANCE AT LILLY
Ethics and Compliance 
Program Oversight 
The ethics and compliance organization is headed  
by the senior vice president of enterprise risk 
management, who is also Lilly’s chief ethics and 
compliance officer. This position reports to the CEO and 
has direct access to the board of directors’ public policy 
and compliance committee.
CODE OF CONDUCT, POLICIES, AND PROCEDURES 
Our ethics and compliance program includes policies 
and procedures. We communicate our key compliance-
related expectations through the following channels:
• The Red Book : We regularly update and disseminate  
 our code of business conduct, The Red Book . Available  
 in 21 languages, this document and associated training  
 emphasize the company’s values and the importance  
 of ethical decision-making, summarize key principles  
 from global company policies, and provide examples  
 for employees to practice applying these principles to  
 their decisions and actions. The foundational principles  
 of The Red Book  are designed to help our employees  
 navigate an increasingly complex global  
 business environment.• Policies, Procedures, and Related Materials:  
 Our policies, procedures, and other materials  
 provide additional details and are available to  
 employees on the company’s intranet. These  
 documents govern Lilly’s actions with respect  
 to specific areas, including our ethical foundation,  
 preventing corruption, respecting privacy,  
 communicating honestly, speaking up, protecting  
 information assets, and many other topics.
REPORTING, MONITORING, AND AUDITING
To detect possible compliance violations, we maintain an 
internal disclosure system that includes a mechanism for 
anonymous reporting. We also review business actions 
through a system of monitoring and audits.
• Internal Reporting:  Lilly employees are required to  
 report to the company any known or suspected  
 violations of the law, The Red Book , company policies,  
 or official orders or decrees applicable to our  
 business. Employees are also encouraged to report  
 any other ethical concerns or issues. Our toll-  
 free ethics and compliance hotline is staffed by an  
 independent firm, 24-hours a day, seven days a week.  
 Due to differences in local law, local reporting  
 processes can vary.  
ANTI-CORRUPTION   |  PAGE 62This work builds on the progress we have made in recent years simplifying our programs 
and raising awareness of the resources available to guide decision-making at Lilly. We are 
committed to getting better  and better as we help our employees do the right thing. ”    
- MELISSA BARNES  |   SVP, ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND CHIEF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER“• Monitoring:  Lilly maintains an ethics and compliance  
 monitoring program that includes a global monitoring  
 strategy, a risk assessment and monitoring plan with  
 standard tools, and a process for reporting metrics  
 to business leaders and key company stakeholders.  
 The purpose of the program is to assess whether:  
 ·Ethics and compliance policies and procedures are  
 implemented and followed; 
 ·Employees are trained on the policies and  
 procedures; and   ·Managers provide sufficient oversight of business  
 processes and related results to support compliance  
 with company policies, procedures, and government  
 laws and regulations.  
• Corporate Auditing:  Our internal corporate auditing  
 function conducts both financial and nonfinancial  
 audits of all Lilly affiliates globally to evaluate  
 compliance with various company policies and  
 procedures. These audits include reviews of our  
 anti-corruption program and the policies that govern  
 ethical interactions.
LILLY HONORED FOR INTEGRITY AND  
TRANSPARENCY WORK
Lilly’s ethics and compliance program has received recognition for three consecutive years at the Corporate Governance 
Awards in New York City. The awards are a global program of the organization that publishes IR Magazine and Corporate 
Secretary , read by executives around the world. In 2017, Lilly took top honors for Best Use of Technology, and in 2016, 2017, 
and 2018 Lilly was one of five finalists for best compliance and ethics program in the “large cap” category comprising large 
publicly traded companies. 
We continually work to improve our program so we can ultimately help business leaders around the globe assess the risks 
they face in real time. As part of this effort, we are:
• Working to connect our data tracking systems to create one repository for information;
• Identifying categories of potential risks to track; and, 
• Building a team to analyze key findings so we can create or improve processes to try to prevent issues from occurring.  
TRAINING AND COMMUNICATIONS
All employees play a role in the success of our ethics and 
compliance program. Therefore, we consider training and 
communications an essential component of promoting and 
nurturing ethical behavior and a culture of trust and integrity 
throughout the business. Some of the strategies we use to 
further strengthen our culture include sharing real stories 
of mistakes we have made as an organization and their 
consequences and helping leaders understand the vital 
role they have in listening and creating an environment that 
encourages ethical behavior.  Our commitment to training and communications is visible 
through many of our activities, including the following:  
• Each year, all Lilly employees (and certain company  
 contractors) must complete training on The Red Book  and  
 certify that they have received, read, understand, and will  
 abide by its requirements. 
• Employees receive targeted ethics and compliance training  
 related to their specific job responsibilities. 
• New employees in the ethics and compliance organization  
 participate in a training and education curriculum that helps  ANTI-CORRUPTION   |  PAGE 63 them understand and implement the elements of an  
 effective ethics and compliance program globally. 
• Our leaders communicate regularly with employees  
 to ensure they understand that Lilly holds each  
 employee responsible for making decisions and taking  
 actions that reflect our company’s values of integrity,  
 excellence, and respect for people.
• In the spirit of learning, we took the bold step this  
 year of sharing with employees details about mistakes  
 we made nearly two decades ago with one of our  
 medications, and the important lessons we learned  
 from that experience. Our executives used this  
 example to reinforce their expectations that all  
 employees speak up to ask questions or raise  
 concerns, listen to each other and the outside world,  
 and hold one another accountable for these behaviors,  
 and for doing the right thing. While we never want to  
 go back to this time in our history, we believe it’s  
 important to learn from it so we do not repeat the  
 same mistakes. 
• We also began a conversation with our leaders  
 and supervisors about their role in fostering an  
 environment that encourages employees to speak  
 up, ask questions, voice concerns, and share ideas.  
 We developed a workshop to help leaders understand  
 how people make decisions and how leaders’ actions  
 and words can influence employee behavior.
INVESTIGATIONS AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS
We take all reports of known or suspected violations 
of company policies and procedures seriously, and 
we appropriately investigate all claims of potential 
wrongdoing that are brought to our attention. We seek to 
address inappropriate conduct as early as possible and to 
prevent future recurrences. To accomplish this, a global 
investigation process conducts timely, thorough, and 
professional investigations. All investigators are trained 
to understand and follow this process and to meet local 
procedural and privacy requirements.
ANTI-CORRUPTION DUE DILIGENCE
We strive to earn and maintain the trust of people we 
serve by acting with integrity in all that we do everywhere 
we operate around the world. We recognize that bribery, 
fraud, and other acts of dishonesty are a betrayal of that 
trust, so we do not offer, provide, authorize, or accept 
anything of value—or give the appearance that we do—to 
inappropriately influence a decision or gain an unfair 
advantage. Our commitment to operating with high 
ethical standards extends to all business relationships, 
dealings, and activities around the world.Our centralized team of anti-corruption, due diligence 
experts works to drive consistency of approach around 
the world as well as partner with our colleagues in the 
business to achieve results. 
Lilly uses an anti-corruption due diligence process to 
assess the appropriateness of interactions with certain 
external parties, including the following:  
• Individuals who may be authorized by Lilly to interact  
 with government officials on the company’s behalf; 
• Prospective recipients of grants and donations; and, 
• Prospective business development partners.  
Lilly also uses an institutional notification process to 
mitigate risk relating to healthcare providers whom 
Lilly pays for services, including clinical trial research, 
or to whom Lilly provides other items of value, such as 
educational opportunities.ANTI-CORRUPTION   |  PAGE 64Lilly is supportive of transparency initiatives globally. We believe openly reporting financial interactions with healthcare 
professionals (HCPs) and healthcare organizations (HCOs) helps to build trust with patients, caregivers, and other  
key stakeholders.TRANSPARENCY AND
DISCLOSURE AT LILLY
Payments to Physicians and  
Healthcare Organizations 
Lilly collaborates with both HCPs and HCOs, focusing 
on a single goal: improving the health and quality of 
patients’ lives. Being transparent about the nature and 
extent of our relationships makes it possible to build 
trust about how we work to benefit patients. 
We believe HCPs should be compensated at a fair market 
rate for their time and expertise whether they are 
scientists helping to research  a potential new treatment, 
HCPs advising  us on medical and scientific matters, or 
physicians conducting an educational program  for Lilly 
with their peers. By disclosing our financial relationships 
with both HCPs and HCOs, patients, caregivers, and 
other key stakeholders can better see and understand 
the collaborations and interactions their own medical 
professionals have with Lilly.
In the United States, Lilly follows disclosure requirements 
at the local, state and federal levels. Lilly adheres to 
the requirements set forth by the federal law known as 
the Physician Payment Sunshine Act (also called “Open 
Payments”), which is part of the broader U.S. Affordable 
Care Act. It requires the biopharmaceutical and medical 
device manufacturing industry to report certain financial 
interactions to a defined group of physicians and teaching 
hospitals. Interactions include items such as payments 
for services provided for research, or food and beverage 
provided during an educational program. 
Lilly reports these financial interactions to the Centers 
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). On an 
annual basis, CMS makes all reported industry financial interactions public in a searchable Open Payments 
Database . On the site, you can view whether a particular 
physician or teaching hospital has had financial interactions 
with a biopharmaceutical company, including Lilly.
Outside the United States, in addition to adhering 
to local and national legislated requirements for 
countries in which we operate, Lilly participates in 
voluntary disclosure codes led by local or regional 
trade associations. One such example is the 
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries 
and Associations (EFPIA), which has established the 
EFPIA HCP/HCO Disclosure Code as well as the EFPIA 
Patient Organization Disclosure Code. Lilly views our 
commitment to transparency and disclosure as an 
opportunity to ensure that patients, HCPs, HCOs, and 
business partners feel confident when engaging with 
Lilly. The EFPIA  website has additional information on the 
HCP/HCO and Patient Organization Codes. You can view 
more on Lilly’s commitment to HCP/HCO transparency in 
Europe , or view our EFPIA Patient Organization Disclosure .
Clinical Trials  
Data Transparency
Lilly has a history of commitment to transparency in 
our clinical studies, and we recognize that responsible 
sharing of clinical study data has the ability to enhance 
public health. Currently, Lilly registers and posts results 
of all clinical trials on clinicaltrials.gov  in addition to any 
legally required clinical trial registries. For Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 trials that complete in 2019 and beyond, Lilly will 
submit results one year after the completion of the trial 
regardless of the medicine’s approval status.
ANTI-CORRUPTION   |  PAGE 65Lilly makes patient-level data available from Lilly-
sponsored trials on marketed drugs for approved uses 
following acceptance for publication. Lilly is one of 
several companies that provide this access through 
the website clinicalstudydatarequest.com . Qualified 
researchers can submit research proposals and request 
anonymized data to test new hypotheses.
In 2013, Lilly began conducting pilot projects creating 
summaries of Phase 2 and 3 clinical trial results in 
patient friendly language using simple, everyday terms. 
In 2019, Lilly will continue creation of plain language 
summaries of Phase 2-4 clinical trial results and 
making English versions available to study sites. Lilly is 
developing a translation process to fulfill posting plain 
language summaries to the European Union (EU) Portal 
and Database, when available. For EU portal posting, the 
summaries will be translated into the local language(s) 
where the studies took place.
Respecting Privacy
Global concerns about data privacy have exploded in 
recent years, as the world becomes more networked 
and interconnected than ever before. Lilly has had a 
longstanding commitment to data privacy, and we have 
had a global privacy program in place for many years. 
That program is continually refreshed in response to 
the ever-changing privacy landscape, including the 
introduction of—or anticipated introduction of—new 
regulatory requirements and ethical considerations 
around data privacy. 
In 2018, new privacy laws went into effect (e.g., the EU’s 
General Data Protection Regulation) or were passed for 
implementation in the near future (e.g., the California 
Consumer Protection Act and Brazil’s General Data 
Privacy law). By passing such laws, regulators have sent 
a strong and powerful message underscoring the critical 
importance of protecting personal information. These expectations are consistent with Lilly’s commitment to 
the ethical management of all personal information that 
is entrusted to us, whether it is that of a customer, an 
employee, or any other individual. 
At its core, our privacy program reflects our commitment 
to being open and honest about how we collect, manage, 
use, and disclose personal information, and to being 
intentional about protecting it. It also reflects our goal 
to share personal information only with those who are 
authorized—and have a legitimate business need—to see 
it. Our program is overseen by our chief privacy officer 
who is supported by an international team of dedicated 
privacy professionals, along with an extensive network 
of ethics and compliance professionals worldwide. Key 
components of our program include a principles-based 
policy supported by an infrastructure of procedures, 
job aids, training, and other materials governing the 
collection and use of personal information. Our goal at 
Lilly is always to deliver on the promises that we make 
to individuals—in every business operation, in every 
location around the world—around the ethical use and 
management of the personal information that we collect 
and use. • Learn more about Lilly’s commitment to transparency at Lilly.com .
• Lilly engages in dialogue directly with members of the healthcare system and other interested parties about ethical  
 interactions through our ethics and compliance hotline (1-877-237-8197), the Lilly EthicsPoint  website, or through means  
 provided by disclosure code administrators such as governments and trade associations. 
• Learn more about Lilly sharing the results of our clinical trials in the Clinical Trials Data Transparency  section of this report. TRANSPARENCY AT LILLYANTI-CORRUPTION   |  PAGE 661 Rounded to the nearest thousandFINANCIAL SUPPORT   
AND LOBBYING ACTIVITY
IN 2018, LILLY SPENT THE 
FOLLOWING AMOUNTS ON  
DIRECT POLITICAL ACTIVITY1:
$1,284,000
IN POLITICAL FINANCIAL SUPPORT 
IN THE UNITED STATES
to state candidates 
in corporate 
contributions; and
through the Lilly 
Political Action 
Committee (LillyPAC).24%
76%$306,000
$978,000
$6,180,000
ON FEDERAL LOBBYING ACTIVITIES 
IN THE UNITED STATES
This information is reported to the U.S. 
Congress in accordance with the Lobbying 
Disclosure Act of 1995.When engaging in lobbying efforts or making political contributions, we comply with the laws that govern such activities. 
All financial support and lobbying activities are overseen by the board of directors’ public policy and compliance committee, 
which is composed entirely of outside directors. All decisions are made without regard for the private or personal 
preferences of the company’s officers and executives.POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT 
All of our employees must also comply with our global 
policies, core values, and legal obligations, which 
are outlined in our written code of business conduct, 
The Red Book . Our annual report of political financial 
support provides details of our company’s U.S. political 
contributions; our memberships in organizations that 
report lobbying activity to the U.S. government, and to 
which we contribute $50,000 a year or more; and the 
activities of our political action committee, the LillyPAC , 
which is funded solely by U.S. employee contributions.
In the United States, we are committed to backing 
candidates of any party who support public policies that 
contribute to pharmaceutical innovation and the health 
needs of patients. When reviewing U.S. candidates for 
support, we consider a number of factors, including 
these examples:
• Has the candidate historically voted or announced  
 positions on issues of importance to Lilly, such as  
 pharmaceutical innovation and health care? 
• Has the candidate demonstrated leadership on key  
 committees of importance to our business?
• Does the candidate demonstrate potential for  
 legislative leadership? 
• Is the candidate dedicated to improving the  
 relationship between business and government?ELI LILLY AND COMPANY
LILLY CORPORATE CENTER
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 46285 USA
317.276.2000  •  LILLY.COM