1 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Advancing sustainable healthcare   by focusing on our products, patients,  people and the environment2021 Global Impact Report2 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTContents  About this Report Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements CEO Message Corporate Social Responsibility Chair Message Teleflex at a Glance Our Products Our Impact Portfolio Optimization  Product Development  Our Supply Chain - Global Procurement - Manufacturing  - Distribution and Logistics - Commercial Organization and Customers  Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholder Engagement  Continued Support for Employees through the COVID-19 Pandemic Principles of Ethics & Governance Corporate Governance  - Board of Directors - Executive Compensation  Participating in Public Policy Industry Groups and Trade Associations Driving a Culture of Compliance: Integrity in All We Do - The Teleflex Promise: Our Global Code of Ethics - Policies and Procedures: Providing a Framework for Success - Training and Communication: Supporting and Reinforcing our Message  30- Auditing and Monitoring:   Understanding how our Policies and Training are Working in Practice - Reporting and Investigations: Encouraging a Speak-Up Culture  Annual Teleflex Enterprise Risk Assessment Sales and Marketing Practices IT Security and Privacy Planet & Environment  Product Stewardship and Circularity Responsible Consumption and Production  - Water  - Safe Materials and Chemicals  - Logistics and Distribution Emissions and Climate Change - Emissions and Energy Targets  - Energy  Waste  People  Talent Management and Development  Tuition Assistance Benefits  Family Support  Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion - DEI Leadership - Inclusive Leadership Training  - DEI in Recruitment - DEI in Retention - Pay Equity Analysis 2021 - Employee Resource Groups  50Employee Recognition  Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People - Occupational Health and Safety Management  - Identifying and Managing Hazards - Employee Consultation  - Health and Safety Training - Employee Health and Safety Tracking Prosperity & Sustainable Healthcare Product Training and Education: Engage, Educate, Align Medical Education Grants Clinical Research Clinical Research Grants Healthcare Access and Equity Innovation, Safety and Quality from Concept to Commercialization - Research, Development and Innovation  - Product Quality and Safety - Labor and Supplier Standards  Philanthropy  - Teleflex Foundation  - Ukraine Support  - Humanitarian Donations  Community Engagement  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index  United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) 80CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)3 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTAbout this Report  Teleflex Incorporated’s second annual Global Impact Report details our  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program and encompasses our  current progress and future aspirations as a company.
This report also  showcases practical ways in which we seek to address evolving  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) standards to identify and  quantify the measures of our sustainability and societal impact.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) 2021 Standards and in line with the Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) industry-specific standards for  medical equipment.
Tables providing relevant information and mapping of  applicable reporting standards to relevant information included elsewhere  in this report are included at the end of this report.
Unless otherwise noted, this report provides information as of and for the  year ending December 31, 2021, and includes information from our owned  and operated facilities globally.
This report includes certain information  pertaining to our Respiratory business, a significant portion of which we  divested to Medline Industries, Inc.
on June 28, 2021.
While we have  internal processes in place to ensure that our reporting is accurate and as  robust as possible, the data in this report has not been externally assured.
Teleflex is considering external assurance in the future.
We value feedback from all of our stakeholders.
You can contact us  regarding this report or our CSR Program at CSR@teleflex.com.
Information Concerning Forward- Looking Statements All statements made in this report, other than statements of historical fact,  are forward-looking statements.
The words “anticipate,” “believe,”  “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “will,” “would,” “should,”  “guidance,” “potential,” “continue,” “project,” “forecast,” “confident,”  “prospects” and similar expressions typically are used to identify forward- looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are based on the then- current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about  our business and the industry and markets in which we operate.
These  statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to  risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual  outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or  implied by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors,  including those factors described or incorporated in our filings with the  Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recently filed  Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to  update forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated  by us or as required by law or regulation.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)4 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT I am pleased to present the Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report, which  provides an update on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) progress and  reaffirms our commitment to sustainability, social responsibility and  inclusivity.
At Teleflex, our purpose is to improve the health and quality of people’s lives.
We recognize and value our responsibility to innovate for better patient  outcomes, engage in environmentally-friendly activities and give back to  communities in which we live and work around the world.
Through our CSR program, we are harnessing the strength of our mission and  Core Values to establish meaningful and measurable goals that align with the  UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Working together, we have already made some great achievements, including:  • completing the installation of solar panels at 5 manufacturing sites around  the world to reduce our carbon intensity; • reducing the amount of material used to package several of our products  to lower our consumption and reduce waste; • ongoing diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, such as inclusive  training for leaders globally; • leveraging the Teleflex Foundation to support expansion of access to  healthcare and providing humanitarian assistance and emergency support  through our product donation program;• investing in software to aid in tracking our carbon footprint, water usage,  and employee health and safety metrics; and • focusing on the environment and the health and wellbeing of others in the  communities around the world through our employee driven JO IN Act with  Purpose initiative.
Our CSR program, along with our purpose and Core Values, helps to define  our company, shape our corporate culture, guide our business practices, and  direct the way we interact with our stakeholders; from healthcare  professionals and their patients, to our employees and stockholders, to our  suppliers and distributors, and to the countless individuals who make up the  communities in which we live and work around the world.
This 2021 Global Impact Report demonstrates the progress we have made in  our CSR efforts.
We will continue to make CSR a strategic priority to  systematically advance our corporate social responsibility efforts, remain  committed to our Core Values, and stay true to our purpose to improve the  health and quality of people’s lives.
Thank you.
CEO Message Liam Kelly Chairman, President and CEO Liam Kelly   Chairman, President and CEOCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)5 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT It is my honor and privilege to serve as the Chair of our Corporate Social  Responsibility Steering Committee, and I am so proud of the amazing work we  have done at Teleflex.
We have expanded our CSR program pillars, and we  remain committed to furthering our key initiatives in the coming years.
We  have both a top-down and bottom-up sustainability strategy.
Our CEO and  Board of Directors have direct oversight of the progress and strategy, and our  employees implement changes and create innovative programs.
There is a clear correlation between our mission as an organization, our Core  Values, and Corporate Social Responsibility.
CSR is a moving target, and we  are working hard for continuous improvement.
We know that we have the role  and responsibility to address key sustainability issues; the issues are not local  or regional, but global.
As a result, we are taking a global approach to manage  our CSR efforts and, through our pillars, ensure that we integrate  sustainability into each organizational team, department, and function.
For  example, in 2021, we expanded our Employee Resource Groups from a U.S.  centric approach to include global regions.
Additionally, we committed to, and  have expanded, our environmental sustainability management resources to  include more trans-global representation.This report provides a comprehensive review of all the great work we have  done globally and our future plans.
Just as with our sustainability progress,  our report is a work in progress as well.
We plan to further develop our  reporting efforts each year to help us further align with stakeholder  expectations and evolving standards.
This report includes alignment with GRI  and SASB and we are planning to submit to CDP and align with the Taskforce  on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in 2023.
We know that, beyond doing the right thing, CSR is a critical tenant to  attracting and retaining great talent, engaging with our stockholders, and  improving our relationships with our customers and patients.
Sustainability is no longer a side topic in business.
It is a business  requirement.
We are so thankful to have such passionate employees that are  helping us to continue our journey.
Sincerely,Corporate Social Responsibility   Chair Message Karen Boylan Corporate Vice President, Strategic ProjectsKaren Boylan   Corporate Vice President, Strategic Projects CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)6 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Teleflex at a GlanceCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)7 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex at a Glance Building Trust PeopleEntrepreneurial Spirit Make it FunEstablishing trust is an important and continuous  process that has many different levels and meanings.
Trust defines our relationships as individuals, teams,  and as a company.
Our employees trust us to give them  the tools that they need to succeed, we trust them  to be accountable, and they trust one another   to create a positive work environment.
People are at the center of  everything we do, and as a result,  they are at the heart of our Core  Values.
Our commitment to people  encompasses being mindful of  others and prioritizing respect in  every interaction.
Teleflex is a highly entrepreneurial workplace, and  much of our company’s growth has come from this trait.
We continuously encourage our people to find new and  innovative ways to demonstrate their entrepreneurial  spirit and add value to their jobs.
We are committed to helping  our employees to find fulfillment  and enjoyment in their jobs by  achieving new things, taking pride  in their work, and taking time out to  celebrate their successes.
Teleflex is a global provider of medical technologies designed to  improve the health and quality of people’s lives.
We apply purpose  driven innovation – a relentless pursuit of identifying unmet clinical  needs – to benefit patients and healthcare providers.
Our Core Values define our company, shaping our corporate culture,  guiding our business practices, and directing the way we interact  with our stakeholders.
Our Core Values revolve entirely around people  - from our patients and healthcare professionals to our employees  and stockholders, to our suppliers and distributors, to the countless  individuals who make up the communities we serve around the world.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)8 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTHeadquartered in Wayne, Pennsylvania, USA with operations in 31 countries  and serving healthcare providers in more than 150 countries.
You can find more information about Teleflex in our 2021 Annual Report .2021 Revenues Revenues   by Global   Product   CategoryRevenues   by Reporting   SegmentRevenues   by End   Market Americas $1.659 billionVascular Access $700.2 millionHospitals / Healthcare Providers 89%Interventional Urology $341.7 millionAsia $297.8 millionInterventional $427.5 million EMEA $606.8 millionAnesthesia $380.1 millionMedical Device   Manufacturers 9%OEM $245.7 millionSurgical $377.8 millionOEM $245.7 millionOther $336.6 millionHome Care 2%®Our Major Brands employees $2.809  $130.8  Consolidated   Revenues   2021Research and   Development  Spend billion millionCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)9 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs) Kamunting KulimMALAYSIAMap of Our Global Sites* CZECH REPUBLICGERMANY LimerickŽďár nad Sázavou Hradec KrálovéBad Liebenzell Kernen * This map includes our major facilities (50,000 square feet or more) as of December 31, 2021.IRELAND ChihuahuaTecateNuevo LaredoPleasanton MEXICO  CANADA USA Morrisville TrentonAsheboroMaple Grove Plymouth Olive BranchReading Wayne   JaffreyChelmsford Mansfield10 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTVascular Access Our Vascular Access product category offers devices that facilitate a  variety of critical care therapies and other applications with a focus on  helping reduce vascular-related complications.
These products primarily  consist of our Arrow® branded catheters, catheter navigation and tip  positioning systems and our intraosseous, or in the bone, access systems.
Our catheters are used in a wide range of procedures, including the  administration of intravenous therapies, the measurement of blood  pressure and the withdrawal of blood samples through a single puncture  site.
Branded under our Arrow® trade name, our pain management  product line includes catheters and disposable pain pumps for regional  anesthesia, designed to improve patients’ postoperative pain experience.
Our intraosseous access systems are designed for the delivery of  medications and fluids when intravenous access is difficult to obtain  in emergent, urgent, or medically necessary cases.
Our products offer  a method for vascular access that can be administered quickly and  effectively in the hospital and prehospital environments and include the  Arrow® EZ-IO® Intraosseous Vascular Access System and Arrow® FAST1TM  Sternal Intraosseous Infusion System.
Interventional  Our Interventional product category offers devices that facilitate a variety  of applications to diagnose and deliver treatment via the vascular system  of the body.
These products primarily consist of a variety of coronary  catheters, structural heart therapies, peripheral intervention products  and cardiac assist products that are used by interventional cardiologists,  interventional radiologists, and vascular surgeons.
Clinical benefits of our  products include increased vein and artery access and increased support  during complex medical procedures.
Our product offerings consist of  a portfolio of Arrow® branded catheters, GuideLiner® and TrapLiner®  catheters, the MANTA® Vascular Closure Device and Arrow® OnControl®  Powered Bone Access System.
Our product categories within our geographic  segments include vascular access, anesthesia,  interventional, surgical, interventional urology,  and urology.
Each of these categories and the  key products sold therein are described in  more detail here.
Our Products CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)11 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTAnesthesia Our Anesthesia product category is comprised of airway, pain management and  hemostatic product lines that support hospital, emergency medicine and military  channels.
Our airway management products and related devices are designed to enable use of  standard and advanced anesthesia techniques in both prehospital emergency and  hospital settings.
Our key products include laryngoscopes, supraglottic airways,  endotracheal tubes, and atomization devices, which are branded under our LMA®,  Rüsch® and MAD trade names.
Our pain management product line includes catheters  and disposable pain pumps for regional anesthesia, designed to improve patients’  postoperative pain experience, which are branded under our Arrow® trade name.
Our hemostatic products accelerate the body’s natural clotting cascade and are used in  trauma situations where bleeding is difficult to control.
The portfolio consists of external  hemostatic products used by first responders, interventional products used in the  catheterization lab, and trauma products used by trauma surgeons, which are branded  under our QuikClot® trade name.
Our Surgical product category consists of single-use and  reusable products designed to provide surgeons with devices  for use in a variety of surgical procedures.
These products  primarily consist of metal and polymer ligation clips, fascial  closure surgical systems used in laparoscopic surgical  procedures, percutaneous surgical systems, and other  surgical instruments.
Our significant surgical brands include  Weck®, Minilap, Pleur-Evac, Deknatel®, KMedic and Pilling®.
Our Interventional Urology product category includes  the UroLift® System, a minimally invasive technology  for treating lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign  prostatic hyperplasia, or BPH.
The UroLift® System  involves the placement of permanent implants, typically  through a transurethral outpatient procedure, that hold the  prostate lobes apart to relieve compression on the urethra  without cutting, heating, or removing prostate tissue.
Our  Interventional Urology product portfolio is most heavily  weighted in our Americas segment.
Surgical Interventional Urology CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)12 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTPortfolio Summary of Key Products Vascular AccessArrow® ErgoPack® Complete CVC System, Arrowg+ard Blue Advance®  PICC and the Arrow® VPS Rhythm® Device with TipTracker™  Technology, Arrow® Integrated Arterial Catheter, Arrow® Endurance™  Extended Dwell Peripheral Catheter System, Arrow® EZ-IO®  Intraosseous Vascular Access System InterventionalGuideLiner® Catheter, Arrow® OnControl® Powered Bone Access  System, MANTA® Vascular Closure Device, AC3 Optimus™ Intra-Aortic  Balloon Pump AnesthesiaRüsch® Single-Use Laryngoscope Blades and Handles, LMA® Airways  with Silicone Cuffs and Cuff Pilot™ Technology, QuikClot® Hemostatic  Products Surgical Fascial Closure, Percutaneous, Ligation, Instrumentation Interventional  UrologyUroLift® System, UroLift® 2 System, UroLift® ATC UrologyRüsch® MMG H2O Hydrophilic Closed System, Rüsch® Belly Bag,  EasyCath™ OEMDiagnostic and interventional catheters, mandrel wire, micro-diameter  tubing, suturesUrology Our Urology product portfolio provides bladder  management for patients in the hospital and  individuals in the home care markets.
The product  portfolio consists principally of a wide range of  catheters (including foley and intermittent), urine  collectors, catheterization accessories and products  for operative endourology, which are marketed  under the Teleflex and Rüsch® brand names.
Our  Urology product portfolio is most heavily weighted  in our EMEA segment.
OEM (Original equipment  manufacturer) Our OEM division develops, designs, and  manufactures MedTech devices, providing  custom-engineered extrusions, diagnostic and  interventional catheters, balloons and balloon  catheters, sheath/dilator sets (introducers)  and kits, sutures, performance fibers and  bioabsorbable resins and fibers.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)13 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTOur Impact Teleflex products are used every day Statistics included in the graphic above were calculated based on the 2020 sales data, and management assumptions and estimates.
24,000   In over 24,000 surgical procedures  in the United States2,000  By Interventional Cardiologists, Radiologists, and Vascular  Surgeons in over 2,000 patients who require vascular  intervention 8,To care for more than 8,000 patients in the Intensive Care  Unit from neonates to adults4,400  By emergency responders to treat 4,400 patients in the field,  including more than 900 cardiac arrests To treat nearly 200 men with benign prostatic  hyperplasia (BPH)3,500  By Interventional Cardiologists to treat over 3,500 Interventional  Cardiology proceduresCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)14 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTPortfolio Optimization  Consistent with our strategy to drive durable growth and our  disciplined portfolio review process, we completed the initial phase  of the divestiture of a significant portion of our respiratory product  portfolio to Medline Industries, Inc.
on June 28, 2021, pursuant to  which we generated $259 million in cash.
The divested Teleflex  respiratory product lines include Hudson RCI® products for oxygen  and aerosol therapy, active humidification, non-invasive ventilation,  and incentive spirometers, all of which generated $139 million in  net revenues in 2020.
We expect the divestiture of the respiratory assets to improve our  organic revenue growth rate and gross profit margins over time  and better positions our internal resource allocation and focus on  our key growth drivers.
During 2021, we completed several distributor to direct sales  conversions and we continue to have significant financial  flexibility, with a 1.74x net debt-to-EBITDA ratio (as of the end of  December 31, 2021), and acquisitions remain our key focus for  capital deployment.
Product Development  At Teleflex, our Concept to Commercialization Program is  transforming our efforts within new product development.
This program spans the entire product lifecycle: from the Front  End of Innovation through Market Research, Design Controls,  Human Factors, Risk Management, Process Controls to Evidence  Generation and Launch Excellence.
We have a commitment to developing the most impactful medical  devices we can for patients, healthcare providers, and caregivers  who use our products.
As part of this commitment, we are working to incorporate  sustainability into all product development efforts, taking a  purposeful approach to create meaningful change that supports  our business, our society, and our planet.
This will be represented through practices such as:   The necessity of sustainable product development offers us additional  opportunities for innovation, and to continue our efforts in product  stewardship and in operating to the standards expected by our  customers, our stockholders, and our partners.
Delivering products that have fewer materials  and eliminating harmful substances  Reducing packaging materials and migrating  towards sustainable solutions Prioritizing sustainable work policies  within our full supply chainReducing water and electricity requirements  during manufacturing  Lowering transportation related  environmental impacts CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)15 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGlobal Procurement Teleflex’s Global Procurement organization is committed to creating  mutually beneficial supply base relationships to assist in providing  our customers high quality, safe and effective products.
In order to  achieve this commitment, we rely on a broad network of suppliers  for the materials and services that are vital to our business.
Teleflex  purchases raw materials, components, and finished goods from  suppliers.
Our Global Procurement and Global Commodity teams  play an important role in ensuring stability in our supply chain and  effective vendor management.
Although we have several sole source  suppliers that play an important role in our supply chain, through  positive Supplier Relationship Management activities, we maintain  trusted partnerships in an effort to minimize risk to the supply chain.
Global Procurement also works with R&D in the early stages of new  product development to help identify and select new suppliers to  reduce our reliance on sole source suppliers moving forward.
Manufacturing Teleflex has approximately 2 million square feet of manufacturing  space with major manufacturing operations in the Czech Republic,  Malaysia, Mexico, and the United States (“U.S.”) and has  approximately 9,000 employees across our supply chain globally.1  Our own manufacturing is supplemented by purchases of finished  goods from our network of contract manufacturers.
Distribution and Logistics Our finished goods are delivered to our Teleflex operated  distribution centers and third-party logistics provider (3PL) partners  around the world.
We have 21 distribution centers and 3PLs  worldwide, including key regional distribution hubs located in Olive  Branch, Mississippi; Mexico City, Mexico; and Rodgau, Germany.
From our distribution centers, our products reach our customers by  way of freight forwarders over land, by air, and by sea.
Commercial Organization  and Customers We market and sell our products through our direct sales force and  third-party resellers to customers within the following end markets  worldwide: hospitals and healthcare providers, medical device  manufacturers and home care.
Our sales efforts are supported by  our marketing teams and other shared services.Our Supply Chain employees suppliersdistribution centers spendmanufacturing space ~9,1,500+~$1B~2M Sq. ft.
Our Global  Footprint 1 Global supply chain employees, including support staff.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)16 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Corporate Social ResponsibilityCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)17 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility Teleflex strives to integrate Corporate Social  Responsibility with our Core Values as a company and  into the culture of Teleflex.
It is integral to our strategic  and commercial objectives.
CSR is the right thing to  do as a corporate citizen, and it makes good business  sense.
Our commitment to CSR allows us to connect  with all of our stakeholders from our employees to our  customers, to patients and others through efforts such  as diversity, equity and inclusion, product stewardship,  and community engagement.
As an organization, our  products are designed to improve the health and quality  of people’s lives, but we cannot stop with our products.
We have organized our CSR Program into four strategic  pillars with each pillar consisting of the key priorities for  Teleflex.
Our CSR Steering Committee has designated a  sponsor and a lead for each pillar.
The pillar leads have  created a subcommittee for each of the pillars to create a  charter, or a set of objectives, for each pillar of the CSR  strategy.
These charters set the direction for each pillar  subcommittee with a clear list of goals to support the  objectives.
The following are our four strategic pillars and the  associated mission statements on which they are focused: Principles of Ethics & Governance:   Ensure Teleflex is meeting both legal requirements and  key stakeholder expectations with respect to governance  and ethics issues and is reporting on progress.
Planet & Environment:   Through environmental and resource use excellence,  both internally and across our supply chain, enhance the  sustainability of Teleflex, so we can improve the health and  quality of more people’s lives.
People:   Inclusively advocating for our people.
Inspiring talent  growth through our Core Values and diversity, equity,  and inclusion.
Nurturing a safe and trusting culture  empowering everyone to bring their true selves to Teleflex.
Prosperity & Sustainable Healthcare:   Generate ideas and develop them into executable projects  that relate to the domains of medical education, research,  philanthropy, community engagement, sustainable  healthcare through development and innovation, product  safety and quality, healthcare access and equity, and  product stewardship.• Corporate Governance • Compliance, Integrity and Ethics • Sales and Marketing Practices • IT Security and Privacy • Supporting our Workforce • Talent Management and Benefits • Diversity, Equity and Inclusion • Employee Recognition • Employee Health and Safety• Emission Reduction • Product Stewardship • Responsible Consumption and Production • Waste Management • Sustainable Procurement • Logistics and Distribution • Medical Education • Clinical Research • Philanthropy • Community Engagement • Research, Development and Innovation • Product Safety and Quality • Healthcare Access and Equity • Product StewardshipPrinciples of Ethics & Governance PeoplePlanet & Environment Prosperity & Sustainable HealthcareCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)18 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTAt Teleflex, we believe that all departments and divisions within the  organization need to be at the table, if we are to create an effective and  plausible long-term CSR strategy.
In 2020, we created a senior-level CSR  Steering Committee, which has direct oversight as well as day-to-day  management of Teleflex’s CSR program.
The members of the Steering Committee consist of senior leaders across  most company functions, including Compliance, Clinical and Medical  Affairs, Global Manufacturing and Supply Chain, Investor Relations,  Human Resources, Legal, Strategic R&D, Finance, and Sustainability.
The Chair of the Steering Committee provides frequent progress updates  to the CEO as well as annual reports to the Nominating and Governance  Committee of the Teleflex Board of Directors.Sustainability   Strategy  and Reporting   Manager  Sponsor Lead SubcommitteeChairman, President and CEO Chair of CSR Steering Committee CSR Steering Committee Prosperity  & Sustainable  Healthcare PillarPeople   PillarPlanet  & Environment  PillarPrinciples of Ethics  & Governance  Pillar  Sponsor Lead Subcommittee Sponsor Lead Subcommittee Sponsor Lead SubcommitteeCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)19 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT In 2021, Teleflex made an  investment in a full-time  Sustainability Director in  our Global Supply Chain  organization.
Our Sustainability  Director ensures that we are  integrating our sustainability  objectives into all aspects of  our business operations.To help move our CSR initiatives  and reporting forward, in 2022,  we hired a full-time Sustainability  Strategy and Reporting Manager to  oversee our CSR Program and provide  top-level support to our Steering  Committee.
This new role will support  us in further developing our impact  report to better align with industry  standards and reporting frameworks.
Our Sustainability Strategy and  Reporting Manager will also assist  us in providing accurate and timely  responses to our investors, customers,  patients, and other key stakeholders  about ESG matters.
“We embed CSR and  ESG into our culture as  a corporate citizen.
We  need to make sure to tell  our story to all of our  stakeholders and I am  working hard to ensure  that everyone at Teleflex  and all of our customers  know where we stand and  what we are doing to make  the world a better place.”“Sustainability is not something  that should sit aside from  the core business but must  be integrated into all roles  and aspects of the business.
Sustainability is most effectively  integrated when all employees  recognize that it is their job to  make Teleflex sustainable and  understand how to achieve that  in their role.”  Derek Noah Sustainability Strategy   and Reporting ManagerDavid O‘Flynn  Sustainability DirectorCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)20 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Stakeholder  Engagement In 2021, we completed our initial Stakeholder  Engagement Plan to help us understand what our key  stakeholders care about.
We reviewed public policy  statements, talked directly to our customers and  investors, engaged with professional societies around  the world, and solicited feedback directly from our  employees.
We surveyed our employees specifically  around CSR topics to better understand what they  find most important to them and to Teleflex.
We also  consulted with the CSR Steering Committee and pillar  subcommittees as these groups represent a diverse  set of employee groups ranging from administrative  to manufacturing functions.
We are incorporating  all of that feedback as part of our first sustainability  materiality assessment to help determine the focus  and direction of our CSR program.
We intend to  initiate a formal third-party materiality assessment  in 2022 to supplement the work completed in 2021  and plan to share the results in subsequent reports.
Over the course of 2022 and beyond, Teleflex plans to  increase our employee engagement through surveys,  newsletters, town halls, dedicated projects, and our  Employee Resource Groups.Key Stakeholders • Employees • Governments and Policymakers • Group Purchasing Organizations (GPOs)   and Integrated Delivery Networks (IDNs) • Health Care Professionals and   Health Care Organizations • Industry Associations and   Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) • Local Communities • Patient and Advocacy Groups • Regulatory and Certified Bodies • Stockholders • Suppliers • Wholesalers and DistributorsCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)21 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Continued Support   for Employees   through the COVID-19  PandemicCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)22 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Continued Support for Employees through  the COVID-19 Pandemic With COVID-19 still a worldwide concern,  we continue to monitor the situation based  on regional and local trends and adjust our  approach, as necessary.
Our Crisis Management  Teams (CMTs) were set up at the global and  regional levels to ensure coordination and  sharing of information and ideas.
We also created  CMTs at each Teleflex location to handle more  site-specific issues, protocols, and employee  communications.
We continue to monitor local  health authority requirements and guidance  across our facilities, in an effort to protect the  health and safety of our employees and others.
While our manufacturing facilities have remained  open throughout most of the pandemic, most of  our office staff had been working remotely from  2020 through 2021.
For our office staff, starting  at the end of 2021, we have been phasing in our  return to office based on regional status changes  for COVID-19 threats and risks.To help our employees navigate the pandemic,  we continued to offer the additional measures  we put in place in 2020 to increase flexibility and  support.
We started several initiatives to address  employee stress, to help manage change and  promote healthy practices, including mindfulness  sessions and sharing tips for working virtually.
In the U.S., Teleflex continued to organize our  Supporting Our Working Parents Program in  recognition of the unique challenges faced by  parents working from home and juggling family  responsibilities.
On top of promoting flexible  work schedules, Teleflex IT support was made  available for working parents with children doing  virtual schooling.
The Supporting Our Working  Parents Program established a weekly reading  circle for children in kindergarten through second  grade and provided weekly online educational  programs for older children, including a Mad  Science series.
In addition, we started a Get  Offline & Outside Challenge and negotiated  discounts with national tutoring organizations for  our employees.We want to continue  thanking those front-line  employees who have been  working hard to ensure  that we can deliver our  world-class medical  equipment to help save  lives.“ ”CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)23 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Principles of Ethics   & GovernanceCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)24 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTCorporate Governance Board of Directors We conduct our business in compliance with the requirements  set by federal and state laws and the rules of the New York Stock  Exchange, and we hold ourselves accountable through our Corporate  Governance Principles.
This policy addresses the composition and  responsibilities of our Board of Directors and its committees, director  selection, independence, conflicts of interest, compensation and  equity ownership, and succession planning.
In 2022, our Board of Directors approved an update to the Nominating  and Governance Committee’s charter to include environmental, social,  and governance (ESG) oversight.
The Nominating and Governance  Committee has oversight with respect to our ESG strategy and  practices and, in coordination with the Audit Committee, our reporting  on ESG matters to internal and external stakeholders.Our Board of Directors is made up of nine total members, eight  of whom are independent.
Teleflex seeks to assemble a Board  that operates cohesively and works with management in a  constructive way to deliver long-term stockholder value.
The Board believes it operates best when its membership  reflects a diverse range of experiences, areas of expertise and  backgrounds.
At the end of 2021, 22% of our Board members  were women, the average age of our Board members was 65,  and the average tenure of our Board members was eight years.Strong corporate governance is at the foundation of a successful business.
Teleflex believes in creating an  environment of good governance and ethics.
We rely on the trust of our patients, customers, employees, and  investors.
To earn that trust, we are committed to the highest ethics and governance standards.
Principles of Ethics & Governance Our Board of Directors has three standing  committees led by independent directors: • The Nominating and Governance Committee • The Compensation Committee • The Audit Committee Charters outlining each Committee’s mission and the duties and required  qualifications of its members are available on our website.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)25 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT2022 Mid Year Update At our 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, Neena M.
Patil, a new director nominee, was elected to our Board.
Ms. Patil, 47, has been the Chief Legal Officer and  Senior Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs of  Jazz Pharmaceuticals plc, a biopharmaceutical company,  since 2019.
Prior to joining Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Ms.  Patil held various senior management and management  level positions at several global biopharmaceutical  companies over her 20-year career.
Ms. Patil’s executive and senior management experience  in the healthcare industry will allow her to provide  valuable insights regarding a wide range of business  matters, including commercial matters, operations,  acquisitions, and strategic planning initiatives.
In  addition, Ms. Patil has been appointed as a member  of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the  Board, where she will assist in providing oversight  on a variety of governance matters, including our  ESG programs.
The addition of Ms. Patil to our Board  brings female representation on the Board to 33% and  improves the Board’s ethnic diversity.In 2021, Teleflex stockholders approved a non- binding stockholder proposal recommending the  “declassification” of our Board of Directors to  reduce director terms from three years to one year.
In light of stockholder support for the proposal and  after careful consideration, the Board submitted  a proposal for approval by Teleflex stockholders  at our 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders  providing for the phased-in declassification of  the Board over a three-year period, which was  approved by our stockholders at the meeting.
Therefore, we will begin implementing the  declassification of the Board at our 2023 Annual  Meeting of Stockholders such that, commencing  with our 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,  all Teleflex directors will be elected for a one- year term expiring at the next annual meeting of  stockholders.Executive Compensation We strive to align our executives’ interests  with those of our stakeholders.
Our executive  compensation program consists of both short  term (annual) and long-term goals which are  designed by our executive management team  under the governance and approval (as required)  of the Compensation Committee of our Board  of Directors.
Our annual incentive plan includes  a component of pay that measures Individual  Performance against 5-7 established objectives,  and beginning in 2022, all members of the  Teleflex Executive Management team2 have at  least one ESG-specific objective against which  they will be assessed.
You can read more about  our executive compensation program in our  annual proxy statement.
“I am excited to join the Teleflex Board  and help support the company in its  mission of helping to improve the health  and quality of people’s lives,” said Ms.  Patil.
“I look forward to being able to  provide insights and perspectives to the  Board in a variety of areas, including  as a member of the Nominating and  Governance Committee and its role  in providing oversight with respect to  Teleflex’s ESG initiatives.” Neena Patil Member of Board of Directors, Teleflex 2 Executive Management Team is defined as a smaller subset of the Senior Management Team.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)26 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTParticipating in  Public Policy The healthcare industry is highly regulated and as such  we believe it is our right and obligation as a corporate  citizen to voice our opinions and views as a medical  technology expert on public policy.
We also believe in  full transparency related to these efforts.
Teleflex public  policy efforts include monitoring and analyzing policy  proposals and, when we see fit, taking a position on  a specific issue.
Teleflex may engage in public policy  when we see that it may directly affect our business,  impact public health, or limit access to healthcare.
Any  public policy involvement on behalf of Teleflex reflects  the interests of Teleflex as an organization and not the  interests of any individual director, officer, or employee.
Teleflex does not provide any direct political donations  or advocacy on behalf of a specific candidate, party,  or committee.
We do not provide contributions to any  groups such as governors’ associations, political action  committees or other section 527 entities.
As of the date  of this report, Teleflex does not have any employee- funded political action committees, and we did not  engage in any direct lobbying activities in 2021.
Please see our Statement on Engagement on Public  Policy Issues for more information.
Industry Groups and  Trade Associations3  Teleflex does not have a dedicated government affairs  team.
The main avenue through which we engage in  the political or governmental affairs process is industry  group membership and trade associations.
These  groups are focused on issues that are important and  specific to the medical device industry.
Groups like  AdvaMed allow companies to come together to discuss  policy issues and research needs.
Teleflex uses these  trade groups as a way to voice our opinions, questions,  and concerns in support of specific issues we are  monitoring as a company.
While Teleflex is a part of  these organizations as a member and participates in  many of the working groups, events, and advocacy  work, we may not always fully agree with the views,  statements, and opinions of these associations or its  individual member companies.
Teleflex reserves the  right to remove itself from specific association or  industry group activities when it is appropriate to do so  or when not fully aligned.• Medical Device Manufacturers  Association • AdvaMed • APACMed • IBEC Trade Association • MedTech Europe • SNITEM • BVMed • Confindustria Dispositvi MediciTeleflex Industry Groups  and Trade Associations:Staying engaged with trade  organizations, and actively  participating on Boards with  societies such as AdvaMed, gives  Teleflex further line of sight into  the ethical and governance  standards that directly affect our  customers and their patients.
Compliance with industry  regulations ties directly into our  CSR program and enables us to  make decisions that move our  business forward.
Liam Kelly   Chairman, President and CEO 3 Includes industry and trade groups of which Teleflex is a member and for which Teleflex pays at least $25,000 per year in membership dues or fees.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)27 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Teleflex is a relentless advocate for access by patients and physicians to our  medical devices and procedures.
For example, we monitor U.S. government  regulations that affect patient access to the prostatic urethral lift procedure  using the UroLift® system.
One specific matter Teleflex advocated against was  the methodology used by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS)  in determining the payment of device-intensive procedures in the office setting.
The increase in the clinical labor rate in the 2022 CMS Medicare Physician  Fee Schedule (MPFS) Proposed Rule reduced physician payments in over 600  office-based procedures among all surgical specialties, including urology.
Teleflex opposed the methodology used in the CMS 2022 MPFS Proposed Rule,  and following its release in July 2021, engaged with professional and patient  organizations including AdvaMed, MDMA (Medical Device Manufacturers  Association), and the AUA (American Urological Association) to discuss the  impact of the Proposed Rule.
We also met directly with CMS to discuss our  concerns about the impact of the Proposed Rule on patient access to office- based surgical care as well as eliminating the least costly site of service for  the Medicare program, patients, and surgeons.
As a result of the advocacy by  individuals and many organizations, including Teleflex, as well as other factors,  CMS decided in its 2022 MPFS Final Rule to implement a four-year phase-in of  clinical labor rates.
Additional actions taken by Congress in late 2021 lessened  the impact of the 2022 MPFS Final Rule.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)28 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Driving a Culture of Compliance:  Integrity in All We Do Integrity is central to our Core Values because creating a culture focused on  integrity is important to us.
Our Global Compliance Program is led by our Chief  Compliance Officer with oversight by our Business Ethics and Compliance  Committee (BECC), which consists of members of the Executive Management team.
Our Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to our CEO with a dotted line to  the Chairperson of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors to ensure the  Compliance Department operates independently.
We then have regional compliance  officers that split the day-to-day responsibilities of implementation of the various  programs and initiatives.
In September 2021, Howard Cyr was appointed as our Corporate Vice President  and Chief Compliance Officer.
We also added several new members to our Global  Compliance Team, including added resources in North America, Asia, and EMEA,  and reorganized the group to create a separate team dedicated to auditing,  monitoring and investigations.
This separation allows our Compliance Officers to  focus day to day on business counseling as well as helping to ensure consistency in  our auditing and monitoring and investigations activities.
Our Global Compliance  Team implements and oversees policies and programs related to our legal,  compliance and ethical obligations, but everyone plays a role in driving a strong  ethical culture at Teleflex.The Teleflex Promise:   Our Global Code of Ethics Our Code of Ethics provides Teleflex employees and partners with a  set of standards and behaviors we require for conducting business  with integrity and with high ethical and legal standards.
Our Code  of Ethics is available in 17 languages to allow all our employees and  business partners to adhere to global compliance guidelines.
Our Code  of Ethics applies to all Teleflex employees and certain third parties  with whom we do business, including resellers, sales agents, and  vendors (Third-Party Representatives).
Policies and Procedures:   Providing a Framework for Success In a complex and ever evolving world, ethical challenges and issues  will inevitability arise.
It is more important than ever to provide our  employees and Third-Party Representatives with clear guidance  on how to approach specific ethical dilemmas.
It is also important  to provide our employees and Third-Party Representatives with a  clear understanding of how to interact with Government Officials,  Government Agencies, and Health Care Professionals (which includes  Health Care Organizations) worldwide.“At its core, the Compliance Program is  about protecting Teleflex, our employees, our  customers and ultimately patients.
It’s about  living our Core Values of Building Trust and  keeping People at the Center of everything we  do.
We provide many resources and assistance  to help the Company operate in a lawful  manner.” Howard Cyr Corporate Vice President   and Chief Compliance OfficerCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)29 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex Framework We are proud of our Anti-Corruption Policy, which provides details on  how to recognize and avoid corruption risks.
Teleflex also abides by many  standardized industry codes of conduct, including those published by  AdvaMed (U.S and China), MedTech Europe, APACMed, SAMED (South  African Medical Device), ABIMED (Brazilian Association of the Health  Technology Industry), and the MTAA (Medical Trade Association of  Australia).
We require our third-party distributors and agents to complete annual anti- corruption training.
We have centralized this process through a third-party  management platform.
Teleflex also provides our distributors with online  training, and in-person training as part of our regular compliance reviews.
Collectively our Code of Ethics, Anti-Corruption Policy, Corporate  Compliance Program Charter and Integrity Code, provide a framework  for our global approach to compliance.
Along with our enterprise-wide  policies, each region and country have their own set of Integrity Policies  and Procedures (IPPs), which provides specific guidelines on topics such  as business meals, educational grants, health care professional consultant  engagement, market research and product samples.
All the policies  referenced above are provided and readily available to our employees  within our intranet.
For our Interventional Urology business unit, we established a tailored set  of IPPs in 2021, in consideration of certain business unit specific marketing  and sales practices that provides specialized oversight and controls.
Additionally, during 2021, we updated our Global IPPs in light of changing  guidance in the industry, including the OIG Special Fraud Alert on Speaker  Programs released in November 2020, and added new IPPs on Disclosure  of Conflicts of Interest, Requesting Exceptions to our Compliance policies  and procedures, and addressing Reporting of Non-Compliance and Discipline.
Lastly, we implemented a new Global Reimbursement and  Health Economics Policy in collaboration with our Clinical and Medical  Affairs team during 2021.
Our Health Care Provider Payment Tracking Policy provides guidance to  ensure proper disclosure of payments made to Health Care Professionals  in accordance with applicable law.
The reporting requirements may vary  country to country and by the nature of the specific transactions.
In the  U.S., we report payments broken down by the state (where necessary) and  on the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Open Payments website.
In Europe, we report payments in several countries and in line with the  MedTech Europe Code.
For all our other regions, we report payments at  the level required by law.
Third-Party Representative Framework It is extremely important that Teleflex’s Third-Party Representatives adhere  to our high standards of business conduct and as such we maintain a  Third-Party Integrity Code, which is available in multiple languages.
We  have also made available the Teleflex Integrity Policies and Procedures  to assist Third-Party Representatives with implementing their own  appropriate internal processes.
In order to centralize and standardize our  due diligence, we utilize a third-party management platform to facilitate  the due diligence of our Third-Party Representatives.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)30 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTraining and Communication:   Supporting and Reinforcing our Message Teleflex provides a variety of training formats for our employees and  certain Third-Party Representatives, which includes live interactive  group training, one-on-one training, interactive online modules, and  videos.
We utilize email and our internal employee newsletter to  provide relevant updates or reminders about specific content.
We require new employees to complete training on, and certify  compliance with, the Code of Ethics through robust interactive  online modules.
We also require all our current employees to  participate in annual training, and we track compliance.
In addition,  Teleflex provides live training at all of our regional or country kick- off meetings, as well as periodic training on our Integrity Policies  and Procedures and other relevant topics such as identifying  and preventing financial crimes, sexual harassment, careful  communication, and data protection.
We are pleased to report that,  in 2021, we achieved a 97% completion rate for our Global Code  of Ethics Training, which is up from 96% in 2020.
While 100%  completion may not be obtainable due to the nature of employee  turnover, family or personal leave, and other reasons, we are very  proud of our completion rate.
Moving forward, we will continue to  remain focused on achieving high completion rates.
In 2021, we began working with a new third-party training vendor  to develop interactive training modules for our Integrity Policies  and Procedures.
The training will be dynamic based on learners’  job responsibilities and their demonstrated understanding of the material.
We expect to be able to take advantage of enhanced  analytics from this training to further enrich our Compliance Program  after it is rolled out in late 2022.
We go through a robust process in creating our training plan each  year.
We consider data from our auditing, monitoring activities, and  investigations as well as frequently asked questions, enforcement  trends, government, and regulatory guidance.
Each year, we also  consider any new or relevant industry or business developments  or changes.
Our employees are busy, and we want to ensure that  the training content will support them with information that is  meaningful for their day-to-day work.
We are always trying to update  and evolve our training and solicit feedback from employees on  our training programs to help us determine how our messages are  being received and whether they are being understood.
In November  2021, we organized a Corporate Compliance and Ethics week, which  included communications each day of the week about different  parts of our compliance and ethics programs.
We sent employees  policy documents, guides, and other links to help understand our  compliance programs.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)31 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTAuditing and Monitoring:   Understanding how our Policies and  Training are Working in Practice Our Compliance Department develops and executes a risk-based  global auditing and monitoring plan annually, which is approved   by the BECC.
This plan typically includes: • Employee expense audits • Compliance ride alongs with front line sales personnel • Live distributor compliance reviews • Third-party distributor audits • On-site monitoring of congresses, tradeshows and Teleflex  product training and educational events   Teleflex’s Compliance Department developed and published an  internal report, which provides an overview of the findings and  establishes timelines for completing any necessary remediation  activities.
While most of the auditing and monitoring activities would  typically be done in-person, in 2021, as a result of the ongoing  COVID-19 pandemic, we completed as many of these activities as  we could virtually.
We were able to successfully conduct distributor  compliance reviews virtually, and our compliance team attended  and monitored virtual congresses, product trainings, and medical  education events.
We also completed regional product allocation  audits to ensure our allocation priorities continued to be adhered to,  focusing on key products being used to help treat patients suffering  with COVID-19.
Reporting and Investigations:   Encouraging a Speak-Up Culture  We have created a culture that allows our employees and  Third-Party Representatives to report concerns about potential  misconduct and violations of the law and our policies.
People  can report concerns or seek guidance through various outlets  including their direct manager, HR, Legal, Compliance, or a  dedicated Teleflex Ethics Line.
Our Ethics Line is available  online and via phone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week in multiple  languages to allow this resource to be used globally in all  countries and time zones.
People can report issues anonymously  via the Ethics Line.
Teleflex encourages people to freely voice  their concerns and maintains a strict policy of non-retaliation.
Any and all reports of potential misconduct are thoroughly  investigated.
Corrective actions are taken in accordance with  our policy on Coordinating Disciplinary and Compliance  Standards, if our investigations find any confirmed misconduct  or wrongdoing.
We ensure a consistent approach to discipline  globally with appropriate levels of corrective actions, including  additional training, verbal or written warnings, changes in job  responsibilities, and in some serious cases, dismissal.
Corrective  action information may be used to focus our training programs or  guide our auditing and monitoring efforts.Annual Teleflex Enterprise   Risk Assessment Each year, we conduct the Teleflex Enterprise Risk Assessment.
Key risks to the company are identified, compiled, and  categorized and a report is prepared.
The report is presented to  Executive Management and the Board of Directors, and the top  risks and associated mitigation efforts are then monitored by  Executive Management throughout the year.
In 2021, 156 participants were asked to identify and rank the  top risks in their respective roles and/or areas of expertise  and describe existing or planned mitigation efforts.
Feedback  was also gathered on the ongoing impact of COVID-19, our  Compliance Program and other areas of risk.
We then conducted  interviews with Executive Management to further discuss the  identified risks.
We utilized an online submission process for our risk assessment  process for the first time to standardize inputs and improve  efficiency of data analysis.
This approach also facilitated the  meaningful expansion of the process to additional participants.
As a means to continue expanding the participant pool in coming  years, we continue to ask participants to identify additional  members of their teams who might have important insights to  share into the risks faced by their function.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)32 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTSales and Marketing  Practices Our sales and marketing teams are tasked with  creating Marketing Communications materials  that highlight features, benefits, quality, and  value that our products bring to the healthcare  community.
As such, we have implemented  policies to ensure our communications are  balanced, within the scope of clearance  or approval, adequately substantiated by  appropriate data and compliant with all  applicable legal and regulatory standards.
Our  various business units and internal departments  work together to review, revise, and approve  our marketing materials and practices before  they are available to the field.
Our sales and  marketing practices are continually evolving  and require ongoing evaluation to ensure we  are meeting not just the legal standards and  requirements, but also the high standards that  we have set internally as a healthcare company.
IT Security and Privacy The Company’s Global Information Security efforts,  under the direction of the Chief Information Officer,  are focused on ensuring the confidentiality, integrity  and availability of our information and our business  partners’ information assets including managing  cyber risks.
Our Information Security Program  (the “Program”) is aligned to industry standards  including the National Institute of Standards and  Technology (NIST), ISO/IEC 27001 and the Center  for Internet Security (CIS) Critical Controls.
The Chief  Information Officer provides select members of our  Senior Management team and the Audit Committee  of our Board of Directors with periodic updates on  controls and emerging risks.
We work with a third- party firm to set the scope to perform an external  security assessment to review our information security  controls.
Part of reducing our risk is ensuring that  our employees are properly trained and educated in  cybersecurity.
Security awareness training is provided  to all employees along with periodic security update  communications and targeted training for select  groups based on job responsibility.
We comply with  the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on  data protection and privacy.
We have had no known  information security or data security breaches from  our systems within the past three years.“Teleflex Global IT is focused on providing technical services and solutions  that support our internal and external business partners while keeping  security and privacy in the forefront of all we do.” Tim Duffy Vice President and Chief Information Officer Teleflex has implemented several initiatives to  protect our systems and data, while supporting our  most important asset, our employees, when working  either at a Teleflex site or remotely.
Examples of  activities include the following: • Implementation of controls to protect our  systems and data when Teleflex devices are used  outside of a Teleflex facility • 24/7 Security Operations Center (SOC)  monitoring and alerts relating to abnormal  system activity and user behavior which may be  indicative of an attack • Expanding IT Support Services to assist  employees with personal technical issues they  experience as a result of COVID-19 restrictions  such as connectivity for home schooling • Expanded policies and training relating to  electronic and physical safeguards when  working remotely, including phishing email  simulationsManaging third-party risk is also a critical  component of the Program.
Processes are in  place to review the controls and procedures  associated with proposed new solutions and  third-party managed technology as part of  vendor selection.
We evaluate solutions and providers from a  security and privacy perspective to ensure the  proper controls are in place to comply with  privacy requirements and security controls are  in place that align with Teleflex policy.
Teleflex continues to monitor cyber and  information security risk and implement and  adopt appropriate risk mitigation measures  to meet the expectations of our internal and  external business partners relative to protecting  information assets.
4 We define information security/data security breaches as an incident that results in the confirmed disclosure - not just potential exposure - of data to an unauthorized party.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)33 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Planet & EnvironmentCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)34 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTPlanet & Environment A healthier planet means a healthier society.
As a  healthcare company, we have an additional obligation to  ensure we have a positive impact on the planet.
Environmental sustainability is a high priority at Teleflex.
In 2021, Teleflex invested in increasing our understanding  of our positive and negative impacts on the planet, and we  have developed a plan to drive further improvements in  this area.
Teleflex utilizes an integrated Environmental Health and  Safety Management System to help maintain compliance  with relevant laws and regulations.
Teleflex has invested in  software that helps track water and energy usage and waste  output across our business globally.
We also use this  software to track our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas  emissions (GHG).
We are excited to have been able to utilize  this software to report the 2019-2021 data included in this  report, and we continue to analyze and refine the historical  data inputs as well as expand the usage of this software to  increase the capability, completeness and accuracy of our  data analytics, reporting and disclosure.
All reported  changes in utility and waste figures included in this report  are based on an absolute basis and are not comparative  figures.5  We have a robust governance structure to help ensure we  deliver on our environmental goals and key performance  metrics (KPIs).
We have established an owner and a working  group for each KPI and collectively, they solicit input from  across the business to ensure engagement and  communication.
The teams meet regularly to drive and  deliver individual projects, and all activities are tracked  centrally on our project management platform.
We have  found that through measurement and accountability, we can  make significant progress.
Business travel, an area of focus for us, was dramatically  reduced throughout the COVID-19 pandemic but is  increasing as regions continue to ease COVID-19  restrictions.
We are committed to providing a leading level  of service to our customers and patients, and we recognize  that this requires travel locally, regionally, and globally.
Teleflex also recognizes that we are all being challenged to  establish new norms and identify ways to drive efficiency in  the business, and we believe this means using technology to  reduce travel wherever possible.
Our Global Headquarters office in Wayne, Pennsylvania is a UL Verified Health Building  for Indoor Air, and it is LEED Gold and Energy Star certified.
5 Absolute figures refer to total usage/production across the sites for which we have included data.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)35 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTProduct Stewardship   and Circularity As a corporate citizen and product manufacturer, we are responsible  for our products across their full lifecycle.
We are committed to  minimizing our products’ environmental impact throughout all  stages of their life cycle – from sourcing and manufacturing to  usage and end of life.
Product stewardship and circularity are seen  as key components, and we will continue to embed them within  our organization.
We continue to examine product designs in an  effort to remove excess material used to manufacture and package  products.
Our manufacturing operations are our largest direct source  of environmental impact, but also a significant opportunity for  improvements.
A key area of continued focus for us is reducing the amount  of material used in our product packaging and in our products  themselves.
For example, we implemented a number of projects over  the past few years including changing from high impact polystyrene  trays to a flexible form fill seal, moving to pre-filled syringe selection  integrated packaging, reducing the corrugate size used in breathing  circuits, and reducing the size of polybags used to package certain  products.
Our UroLift® UL2 System is one such product that has  built-in waste reduction measures.
The UL2 System allows healthcare  professionals to re-use one handle during a procedure for all the  required UL2 Cartridges rather than using a separate handle for each  cartridge, thus saving on materials and packaging.
Responsible Consumption   and Production  Water  Water is an increasingly valuable resource.
While Teleflex uses  significantly less water than companies in other industries,  we recognize that we must play our part in conserving and  protecting our water resources.
Between 2019 and 2021, we  have reduced the absolute water use at our manufacturing and  distribution sites by approximately 6%.Safe Materials and Chemicals   We routinely evaluate the materials and chemicals that we  utilize in our products and consider substituting materials with  safer alternatives wherever feasible.
In accordance with EU  Medical Device Regulation (“MDR”), we are in the process of  replacing certain materials in over 1,100 product SKUs and  expect this project to be complete by May 2024.
Logistics and Distribution  Teleflex has grown through acquisition with manufacturing  locations being a product of our growth and investment  strategy.
Our Procurement, Logistics and Customer Service  teams are examining ways to decarbonize our product  movement footprint.
Our Research and Development team is  building sustainability into the start of the process, including  considering package materials, size, and weight with a view to  driving efficiencies during transport and storage.
As an example of these efforts, in Mexico, our Enterprise  Excellence team identified an opportunity to achieve multiple  efficiencies by consolidating materials storage and work in  progress closer to our manufacturing facilities.
At the time,  our four on-campus manufacturing buildings, which were  located within 0.5 km of each other, were served by a materials  storage warehouse 10 km away.
Through restructuring, space  was created on campus, resulting in savings of 75,000 km and  over 4,000 hours of driving time annually.
We also reduced  warehouse space by 15%, which resulted in electricity and gas  usage reductions.
The new layout and racking improved safety,  productivity, and inventory management.
6 Data includes substantially all of our manufacturing and distribution facilities.
The data excludes our commercial facilities and closed facilities as well as certain  facilities obtained through recent acquisitions.
We plan to expand the data to include these facilities in the future.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)36 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTEmissions and Climate Change Climate change is a defining issue of our time.
It is increasingly  well recognized that climate change impacts not only our  environment but also our health.
As a provider of medical  devices, designed to support our customers and patients in  achieving excellence in health outcomes, we have an obligation  (beyond being a responsible company that protects stakeholder  value) to also support the ‘first do no harm’ creed.
During COP26,  the annual UN Conference of Parties that brings together world  leaders to discuss the climate crisis, we heard the message from  healthcare professionals and healthcare institutions that they  want to see decarbonization at scale to stave off the worst effects  of climate change and the resulting health impacts.
We fully  intend to play our part and lead where we can.
Teleflex, in conjunction with our insurer, has undertaken a  climate risk assessment for our strategic manufacturing and  distribution sites.
For the locations identified as being potentially  subject to more extreme wind, rain, snow, and other climatic  events, we are evaluating and implementing measures to mitigate  the potential impacts of these events.Between 2019 and 2021, we have reduced our scope 1 and 2  carbon emissions across our manufacturing and distribution  sites by over 3% notwithstanding an increase in sales volumes  over that same period.
We will begin to evaluate our scope 3  emissions in 2022 and plan to provide additional data in our 2022  Global Impact Report.Emissions and Energy Targets Teleflex recognizes that we need to fully participate in the  change necessary to address the worst effects of climate  change.
It is for this reason that we have committed to setting  Science Based Targets (SBT) and will report progress in our  2022 Global Impact Report.
We have committed to setting both  near-term reduction and long-term net zero targets.
Between 2019 and 2021,  reduced scope 1 and 2  carbon emissions across our  manufacturing and distribution  sites by over 3%Through restructuring, space  was created on campus, resulting  in savings of 75,000 km and  over 4,000 hours of driving time  annually 7 Countries commit to develop climate-smart health care at COP26 UN climate conference (who.int) and COP26 Health Programme (who.int) and Global health community calls for climate action ahead of  COP26 to avert “biggest health threat facing humanity” | The George Institute for Global Health and Race to Zero | Health Care Climate Action.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)37 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTAt our Hradec, Czech Republic facility, we identified an opportunity to upgrade the existing air  compressor.
As part of the upgrade, we changed from a static to a variable speed drive and installed  a more efficient unit.
We also included heat recovery as part of the upgrade.
The variable speed drive  led to a reduction in electricity use and the heat recovery element led to a reduction in gas usage.
The  project commenced in October 2021 and was completed in January 2022.
At our Kamunting, Malaysia facility, we identified an opportunity to improve the efficiency of the  on-site HVAC system through the installation of a dual condensing system for air conditioner units.
The  function of a dual condensing unit is to increase surface heat dissipation and improve the overall indoor  cooling effect.
As a result, once the installations were completed in September of 2021, the site was  able to attain optimal temperatures faster and reduce related energy consumption by up to 18%.
At our Plymouth, Minnesota, USA facility, the Plant Manager and Manufacturing Engineer recognized  an opportunity to upgrade the HVAC system.
The automation and zoning of the HVAC system allowed  for more efficient heating and cooling during periods of low occupancy in the building.
The upgrade also  included automatic data logging of temperature and humidity, facilitating more accurate adjustment to  achieve the ideal environment and was completed in 2021.Case Study CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)38 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTElectricity   Teleflex is committed to reducing our energy  consumption and increasing efficiency.
This  commitment is being, and will be, achieved  through numerous projects across the business.
We have outlined 2021-2023 Operational Goals  to reduce our overall purchased energy by 10%.
Between 2019 and 2021, we reduced absolute  electricity usage across our manufacturing and  distribution sites by approximately 2%.8  Renewable Electricity  Energy efficiency is only one part of our plan to  reduce our impact on the environment through  energy usage.
In reaching our emissions targets,  Teleflex has, and will, continue to invest in  clean energy alternatives.
We have invested  in solar photovoltaic (PV) installations at five  manufacturing sites globally.
Solar panels were  first installed in 2015 and since then we have  installed approximately 5 MW (megawatt) of  additional generating capacity.
Our renewable  electricity generating capacity has grown  significantly from 2019 to 2021 with a nearly 3-fold increase from 2020 to 2021.
During 2021,  we generated over 5 GWh (gigawatt hours) of  renewable electricity.6 The solar panels at our  Kamunting, Malaysia; Kulim, Malaysia; Tecate,  Mexico; Chihuahua, Mexico; and Puducherry,  India facilities are producing more than 10%  of the electricity used at each site.
These solar  panels will help reduce CO2 emissions by over  3,000 metric tonnes annually.
Natural Gas   As with electricity, Teleflex is committed to  maximizing natural gas efficiency through  production changes and investment.
Mainly as  a result of air quality improvement technology  that we added to our manufacturing process,  our absolute natural gas usage across our  manufacturing and distribution sites increased  over 5% between 2019 and 2021.6Energy During 2021, we installed a solar panel  system on the roof of our Kamunting,  Malaysia facility.
The new solar panel system  not only reduced the site’s carbon footprint  but reduced the reliance on the grid energy  supply.
The solar capacity of this system is 2.5  MW (megawatt).
From March 2021 to March  2022, the system has generated over 3.5 GWh  (gigawatt hour) of renewable electricity, which  resulted in a reduction of nearly 2,500 metric  tonnes of CO2.
At our Puducherry, India facility, we  installed 20 KW and 30 KW roof mounted  solar panels in 2015 and 2017, respectively.
In March 2021, an additional 300 KW of  capacity was installed and went operational  in August 2021.
The project is projected to  reduce the site’s CO2 emissions by over 200  metric tonnes annually.Case Study 6 Data includes substantially all of our manufacturing and distribution facilities.
The data excludes our commercial facilities and closed facilities as well as certain  facilities obtained through recent acquisitions.
We plan to expand the data to include these facilities in the future.
8 Data includes substantially all of our manufacturing and distribution facilities.
The data excludes our commercial facilities and closed facilities as well as certain  facilities obtained through recent acquisitions.
Data also excludes some historical diesel usage and refrigerant emissions.
We plan to expand the data to include  these facilities in the future.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)39 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTWaste  Teleflex recognizes that where there is waste there are inefficiencies.
We want to ensure we follow the waste hierarchy pyramid by  maximizing reuse and recycling and minimizing what is sent to  landfills.
We have outlined 2021-2023 Operational Goals to reduce  our overall waste to landfill by 10%.
Our efforts to reuse materials  include programs such as solvent distillation, and our recycling  initiatives include programs focused on paper, metals and plastic.
We have made significant changes across the various waste metrics  through improvements to material loss during the production process  and engagement with our waste collection partners.
Between 2019  and 2021, our manufacturing and distribution sites have achieved  reductions in hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste by nearly  50% and nearly 7%, respectively, as well as a nearly 27% reduction  in total waste to landfill over that same time period.6Our Nuevo Laredo, Mexico site’s extrusion process produces a  water by-product that is classified as hazardous.
Prior to 2020,  the material was sent off site for processing.
In 2020, we built a  wastewater treatment plant that now treats the water to a standard  suitable for disposal into the municipal sewer.
This contributed to a  reduction in hazardous waste disposal of over 90% at this facility  between 2019 and 2021.
Teleflex’s Coventry, Connecticut, USA site has been recovering  solvents for decades.
The purpose of the distillation process is  to produce clean, clear, recycled propylene glycol methyl ether  (PGME) used for washing suture material as part of the dye  process, reducing hazardous waste and the volume of new PGME  purchased by the site.
In 2010, the still was upgraded with an  electric powered unit which more than doubled its capacity.
The  additional distillation further reduced raw materials purchased and  hazardous waste disposal.
The replacement of the high-pressure  boiler with a low-pressure option resulted in fuel savings.Case Study 6 Data includes substantially all of our manufacturing and distribution facilities.
The data excludes our commercial  facilities and closed facilities as well as certain facilities obtained through recent acquisitions.
We plan to expand the  data to include these facilities in the future.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)40 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report PeopleCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)41 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTPeople Teleflex is proud of the amazing people that work with  and for us.
Our employees are essential to our growth –  their success is our success.
Our Core Values place People  at the center of all we do.
We believe our employees are  the strongest and best asset of our company, and we  intentionally invest in them as such.Talent Management   and Development We work with our teams to ensure our employees are given opportunities  for growth that are aligned with their aspirations for development within the  company.
We continue to build a culture where employees and managers  support one another to find a path to personal and professional growth  throughout their time with us.
The talent management and talent development processes are built on a  foundation of regular check-ins between employees and managers and provides  opportunities for listening and creates coaching moments.
During these check- ins, employees review progress on their self-identified career and development  objectives (Career Pathway) and our managers consider the progress made on  development plans to ensure support and resources are available as needed to  enable the strategic growth goals of the individual and the company.
This is a  global and enterprise-wise activity and is carried out with all our direct labor in  their local language to maintain the intimacy and impact of the conversation in  a supportive way.
We believe in supporting employees who would like to further their education  throughout their career.
On-the-job learning is a significant component of our  development; it is a part of formal objective setting, and it is complemented  by formal education as well as peer and manager mentoring.
We offer internal  educational and training programs, events, and support resources to employees  primarily through our Connect Learning Platform.“Our Core Values are explicit on this  point: People are indeed at the Center of  All We Do at Teleflex.
And that value cuts  across all dimensions of the employee  experience in Teleflex.” Cameron Hicks Corporate Vice President and  Chief Human Resources Officer CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)42 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTThrough the Teleflex Academy and our Connect  platforms online educational tools, we run a full schedule  of our Core Curriculum programs in each of our regions  throughout the calendar year, providing learning  opportunities for our employees to further develop their  skills and receive training across a broad spectrum of  subject areas.
It includes training in professional skills  such as leadership, communications, and business  acumen, as well as Teleflex specific training and relevant  product training for internal employees.
Our program  offerings can be delivered successfully both virtually and  in person in multiple languages and we are continually  expanding our digital library for ‘learning on-the-go'  or the ‘just-in-time' cohort of employees who work  remotely.
The Connect Learning Core Curriculum includes a  specific progressive leadership framework for all those  in leadership roles as they move through the levels from  Team Leader to Executive.
The main areas include: The  Essentials of Management, “Good to Great” Coaching,  Teleflex Leadership Development, Inclusive Leadership,  and Teleflex Strategic Leadership.
We have added  specific training and programs aimed at assisting  employees navigate work in a pandemic, working from  home, leading teams virtually, addressing emotions at  work and, mindfulness and resilience.Hours of training 2021 for full-time non-manufacturing  employees (via Connect Learning Platform): Our recently redesigned coaching program, “Good to Great Coaching,”  which was relaunched in 2021, introduces 1:1 coaching to leaders  throughout the organization while at the same time promoting a cultural  shift towards an environment of self-awareness and development; to inspire  a workplace where employees embrace and welcome feedback and learn  to actively listen and challenge all perspectives.
Coaching brings focus on  the future and on creating action plans to achieve goals and outcomes.
A  coaching culture supports the individual and larger team, empowering all to  be at their best in any situation – to learn how to create a future they desire  and move from the present reality toward that desired future state.
We also piloted a formal mentoring program as another way to develop  and foster talent in 2021 which will be expanding in 2022.
Mentoring  is a supportive learning relationship between an individual (‘Mentor’)  who shares knowledge, experience, and wisdom with another individual  (‘Mentee’) who is ready and willing to benefit from this exchange, for the  purpose of enriching the Mentee’s professional journey.
Mentoring focuses  on helping Mentees manage five aspects: skills development, problem  solving, goal setting, career planning, and networking.
This is a 6–12-month  program in which the Mentee and Mentor meet at minimum once a month  and set up clear action plans for addressing key development areas.Tuition Assistance In addition to our internal training and education resources, we support  those who wish to go back to school or enhance their current skillset with  external education.
We offer full-time U.S. employees assistance through  reimbursement of fees for tuition, laboratory, registration, and other  mandatory fees and expenses for a selection of job-related courses.
Where  available, our regions have a variety of programs with local rules and  criteria that apply.
Benefits We are committed to offering a competitive benefits package to ensure  we attract and retain the top talent needed to continue to deliver on our  commitments to customers, patients, employees, and stockholders.
We are  in an “employee’s market” right now, and we believe our compensation  offering is aligned to competitive market pay levels and are in line with  our culture and Core Values.
We structure our compensation to include a  role-appropriate mix of base salary, short-term cash incentives and long- term incentives.
Our mission as a company is to improve the health and  quality of people’s lives and that starts with our own employees.
We offer  our employees health and dental benefits, as well as retirement plans.
We  have also implemented policies addressing paid time off, flexible work  schedules, employee assistance, parental leave, and family benefits, among  others.
In an age where COVID-19 is still a large concern for many people,  we have also added a telemedicine benefit for our U.S. employees, which  can help increase patient safety and reduce the overall cost of the medical  appointment.
Each region and country have specific benefits and policies  that are developed based on their applicable rules.
You can learn more  about our U.S. benefits here.By Gender  • Female (11,810)  • Male (15,061) • Undeclared (97)By Position  • Senior Management9  (1,877)  • Manager (16,424) • Individual Contributor (8,667) 9 Senior management is defined as Vice President and above.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)43 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTFamily Support We live in a highly diverse world and have a highly diverse workforce.
As such,  we believe there is no “one size fits all” family support and leave program.
For  many, creating and growing a family is one of the most important milestones  in one’s life, and we want to ensure that we support that milestone as much  as we can.
Teleflex has a Family Friendly Benefits Program for our full-time  employees in the U.S.  That program includes our Parental Leave Policy, which offers both the birthing  parent and non-birthing parent up to six additional weeks of paid time off  following the birth of a child.
We also allow those parents that have adopted a  child the same level of leave.
We know that each journey of growing a family  is unique and that sometimes those journeys can benefit from more support.
We provide enhanced support for growing families through adoption with  a company contribution to help defray the costs.
We also provide enhanced  coverage as part of our medical plan for employees seeking fertility treatments  such as intrauterine insemination (IUI) and in-vitro fertilization (IVF).
Globally,  we provide parental leave in accordance with all local regulations.
U.S. Employees Eligible for Parental Leave in Male 2,Female 1,Other Total 3,# of U.S. Employees that Used Paid  Parental Leave in 202110  Unpaid Parental  Leave Used11Returned  to Work% Returned to Work   After Leave Male 67 10 65 97 % Female 57 29 56 98 % Total 124 39 121 98 % 10 Includes parental leave that was initiated in 2021.
11 Unpaid parental leave is used after paid parental leave is exhausted.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)44 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTI feel so fortunate to work for a company like Teleflex, that truly puts  people at the center of everything they do.
Last year, I had the blessing  of getting pregnant with our second child.
With my first son I worked  for a different organization and was only able to take 8 weeks off from  work - that included 6 weeks of short-term disability and 2 weeks of  PTO that I had been saving just so that I could extend my leave.
At  Teleflex I was able to take a full 12 weeks of paid leave and did not  have to use a single hour of PTO.
I am forever grateful to work for a  company that has developed a parental leave policy which gives ALL  parental figures 6 additional weeks of fully paid leave.
Adjusting to  having two children was not easy, but Teleflex supported me through  every step of the process, including coverage of my responsibilities  while I was out on leave and support in transitioning back to work.
The  fact that I did not have to use any PTO means that I still have the  opportunity to take time throughout the year to be at daycare events for  my children, take them on vacation, or to just give myself a personal  day here and there when I need it (which let’s be honest, all new  parents do!).
Having a full 12 full weeks off helped me to bond with our  newest child, figure out a solid home routine to create balance, and  helped me feel more energized about returning to work.
Thank you, Teleflex!  Sarah Woo   HR Generalist, Vascular2021 – the year I became a first-time Mom.
I am  most grateful to have been able to take 14 weeks at  home with our daughter.
It was so important for our  newly growing family to be together for that time  without having to worry about not getting paid.
I  was able to maximize my time off with merging my  time off with regular leave and then jumping right  into the 6 weeks of pay with the company’s new  Parental Leave.
That is something my husband and   I appreciated most: the extra newborn snuggles.
Thank you, Teleflex, from the bottom of our hearts!   Monica Koehler   Associate Scientist, R&D - Combination Technologies,   Vascular Division    My wife and I were able to take advantage of   the amazing benefits Teleflex offers to new and  expecting parents, which gave us peace of mind   and allowed us to focus on spending time   with our new baby.
Matt Tomkin   Vice President - Corporate Development  CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)45 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTWe are committed to advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) in all  its forms across our workforce and maintaining a positive and inclusive work  environment.
The rich diversity of Teleflex talent is valued and intentionally  woven into the fabric of how we make decisions and operate as a company.
Building on this commitment, our Global DEI Council was formed.
We remain true to our mission, “To provide oversight, counsel and visibility  to the importance, initiatives and progress related to Diversity, Equity and  Inclusion in Teleflex.” By creating a diverse workforce, we create a workplace that fosters creativity  and innovation.
Diversity creates an inherent entrepreneurial spirit which is  firmly rooted in our Core Values.
We know that diversity, equity, and inclusion  drive value for employees, patients, customers, and stockholders by allowing  for a broad range of perspectives and experiences to enrich our offering to  these communities.
We want to ensure that our employees hear from us about our progress and all  the resources available to them.
In 2021, we introduced the quarterly Diversity,  Equity and Inclusion Newsletter.
In each edition, we share global DEI updates  as well as news and stories from each respective region, giving thoughtful  insight into the many different cultures within our company.
We encourage our employees to share their thoughts, opinions, and experience  at Teleflex.
In May 2021, we opened a Global DEI Survey for all our full-time  salaried employees globally and some of our hourly employees at global supply  chain sites to give employees the opportunity to help further shape the culture  of our workplace.
We are pleased that our participation levels were 50%  globally in the survey.
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion “Fostering a culture of inclusion  forms part of our Core Values  and is key for all our employees  to experience a sense of  belonging in their teams  and enjoy their workplace.
Being comfortable to be your  authentic self at work enables  us to focus and take care of our  customers.” Monika Vikander-Hegarty Vice President  Human Resources,  Global Commercial and Talent   Development Officer Each of our regions evaluated and identified how they will activate DEI  in 2022 and beyond.
Based on the survey results, below are a few of the  regional changes or additions that will be made: EMEA LATAM APAC U.S. AND CANADAWe plan to initiate conversations around  DEI at individual and team levels to continue  to ‘build trust’ and enhance a sense of  belonging for each person in Teleflex.We will look to integrate our Employee  Resource Groups locally by expanding the  opportunities for participation across the  region.
We will plan to get ‘REAL’ about DEI,  with steps towards Revealing relevant  opportunities, Elevating equity initiatives,  Activating diversity, and Leading  inclusively.We will continue to champion DEI by  improving representation across the  organization, embracing and respecting  our cultures, and developing meaningful   metrics for future accountability.
• Ensure Teleflex Core Values are lived throughout the company every day, at every level.
• By indicator of diversity, the percentage of Teleflex employees by employment category  will reflect the talent market(s) in which we work and compete.
• We believe in equal pay for equal work.
Teleflex is committed to fair and equitable  compensation, taking into consideration the elements that appropriately influence pay  (e.g. experience, geographic location, and individual performance).
• Ensure the rich, diversity of Teleflex talent is valued and intentionally woven into the  fabric of how we make decisions and operate as a company.Teleflex Global DEI ObjectivesCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)46 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTOur commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion comes from the top.
Our Global Corporate DEI council is co-chaired by our CEO and our  U.S. and Canada Regional Chair.
We have four regional DEI councils, which are headed by champions  from the Global DEI Council.
The mission of our Global Corporate DEI  Council is to provide oversight and visibility and to counsel on the  importance of a focus on DEI, global and local initiatives, and progress  within Teleflex.
The Regional DEI Councils serve the key function of engaging  and supporting local teams in implementing Teleflex’s Global DEI  objectives.
Feedback communication channels have been established  in each of the regions to ensure that our organization is truly listening  to our employees and supporting locations to facilitate an inclusive  working environment.
As we move from awareness to action, we will continue to reserve  a safe place to have tough and challenging conversations.
Based  on employee requests, we will bring in new topics focused on  Stereotypes, Diversity -vs- Inclusion, Microaggressions, Intentional  Inclusion, and Generational Diversity – Finding Common Ground  and Bystander Intervention.
These conversations will go below the  surface to help create an employee experience that fosters a sense of  belonging and purpose.
DEI Leadership Liam Kelly Chairman, President and CEO Co-Chair of Global Corporate   DEI Council  Dennis Diaz Head of Manufacturing, Mexico LATAM Regional Council ChairShanté Demary Director of Strategic Pricing and Contract Management  Co-Chair of Global Corporate DEI Council and   US and Canada Regional Council Chair Ruby Liu RA Director, China APAC Regional Council ChairSunny Sohal Account Manager, Airway and Anesthesia  EMEA Regional Council Chair We will, with intention, weave our Core Values,  Diversity, Equity and Inclusion into our processes and  practices that in turn reinforce company culture.
Making sure everyone from individual contributors   to those in leadership roles demonstrates belonging.
An Inclusive Teleflex begins with YOU!”  Shanté DemaryCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)47 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTInclusive Leadership Training In 2020, we partnered with The Humphrey Group to develop  and implement our Inclusive Leadership program with  our executive management.
The Humphrey Group are  established experts in the area of DEI, specializing in how  to introduce core concepts and maintain open dialogue  throughout a global organization.
We know that inclusivity  does not stop at the top, and we wanted to hear from  colleagues in every part of the organization and from every  level.
In 2021, we expanded the implementation of Inclusive  Leadership to include all managers and introduced our  Inclusive Mindset program for all our non-manager staff.
The main objectives of the programs are supporting our  people to:  • Understand the current landscape of DEI • Gain insight into current debates within the discourse • Clearly articulate each individual’s position on DEI • Understand each individual’s role in creating the  inclusivity they want • Learn the tactics of inclusive communication • Become comfortable using common and less common   DEI termsAs we continue to deliver our Inclusive Leadership and  Mindset programs globally, we are committed to developing  and offering educational opportunities to support on-going  learning from these programs.
In 2021, we released an  Unconscious Bias educational video for all employees to  access through our Learning Management System (Connect  Learning Platform).
DEI in Recruitment One of the best ways we can increase our DEI efforts is  in our recruitment of new talent and employees.
Our DEI  Council has worked with HR to ensure that we are providing  managers with a diverse slate of candidates.
We currently  use various recruitment avenues including sourcing from  multiple social media outlets, co-op placements, local  universities, and technical institutes.
We also work with  numerous external recruiting firms that focus on diversity of  age, race, ethnicity, and gender.
2021 Global Hires by Gender   Gender Total Hires % of Total Male 1,727 42.8 % Female 2,305 57.2 % Undeclared 1 0.0 % Total 4,033 100 % 2021 Global Hires by Age   Age Band Total Hires % of Total Less than 30 2,143 53.1 % 30-39 1,137 28.2 % 40-49 501 12.4 % 50+ 252 6.3 % Total 4,033 100 % 2021 Hires by Region Region Total Hires % of Total Asia-Pacific 961 23.8 % Europe, Middle East, Africa 355 8.8 % Latin America 1,838 45.6 % North America 879 21.8 % Total 4,033 100 %CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)48 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTDEI in Retention At Teleflex, we are very proud of our work to  improve our diversity but also to have been  successful in retaining that diversity through  career planning and talent management.
At the  end of 2021, approximately 23% of members of  senior management were women, and the average  age of our senior management team was 50.At the end of 2021, 59% of our global workforce  was female and 38% of our U.S. workforce  were non-white.
While we are very proud of our  overall company workforce diversity, we know  that these are not the only measurements of  diversity.
Teleflex is actively working to enhance  and improve our diversity as you move up in  management and leadership.
We know that the  more diverse viewpoints you have in leadership,  the better a company performs.
Global Gender WORKFORCE 2019 2020 # % # % # % Male 5,858 40.6 % 5,728 41.2 % 5,859 40.8 % Female 8,560 59.3 % 8,147 58.6 % 8,501 59.1 % Other 18 0.1 % 20 0.2 % 15 0.1 % Total 14,436 100 % 13,895 100 % 14,375 100 % SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2019 2020 # % # % # % Male 67 76.1 % 72 77.4 % 75 77.3 % Female 21 23.9 % 21 22.6 % 22 22.7 % Total 88 100 % 93 100 % 97 100 %U.S. Ethnicity  WORKFORCE 2019 2020 # % # % # % American   Indian / Alaskan  Native18 0.5 % 16 0.4 % 15 0.4 % Asian 588 14.7 % 559 14.5 % 502 13.5 % Black 543 13.6 % 504 13.0 % 484 13.0 % Hawaiian / Pacific  Islander10 0.2 % 9 0.2 % 6 0.2 % Hispanic 280 7.0 % 274 7.1 % 273 7.3 % White 2,426 60.6 % 2,368 61.2 % 2,311 62.0 % Two or more races 79 2.0 % 75 1.9 % 77 2.1 % Choose not to answer 57 1.4 % 65 1.7 % 56 1.5 % Total 4,001 100 % 3,870 100 % 3,724 100 % SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2019 2020 # % # % # % American   Indian / Alaskan  Native1 1.5 % 1 1.4 % 1 1.4 % Asian 5 7.3 % 5 7.2 % 3 4.1 % Black 1 1.5 % 0 0.0 % 0 0.0 % Hawaiian / Pacific  Islander0 0.0 % 0 0.0 % 0 0.0 % Hispanic 2 2.9 % 2 2.9 % 2 2.8 % White 58 85.3 % 60 87.0 % 64 88.9 % Two or more races 1 1.5 % 1 1.5 % 1 1.4 % Choose not to answer 0 0.0 % 0 0.0 % 1 1.4 % Total 68 100 % 69 100 % 72 100 % 9 Senior management is defined as Vice President and above.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)49 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGlobal Age WORKFORCE 2019 2020 # % # % # % Less than 30 3,530 24.5 % 3,242 23.3 % 3,509 24.4 % 30-39 4,104 28.4 % 3,796 27.3 % 3,943 27.4 % 40-49 3,796 26.3 % 3,789 27.3 % 3,792 26.4 % 50+ 3,006 20.8 % 3,068 22.1 % 3,131 21.8 % Total 14,436 100 % 13,895 100 % 14,375 100 % Average 39.7  40.3  40.0  Global Tenure WORKFORCE 2019 2020 # % # % # % Less than 1 2,547 17.6 % 1,689 12.2 % 2,706 18.8 % 1 - 2 3,857 26.7 % 3,869 27.8 % 2,766 19.2 % 3 - 5 2,796 19.4 % 2,963 21.3 % 3,328 23.2 % 6 - 10 1,876 13.0 % 2,048 14.7 % 2,284 15.9 % 11 - 14 1,453 10.1 % 1,232 8.9 % 1,024 7.1 % 15+ 1,907 13.2 % 2,094 15.1 % 2,267 15.8 % Total 14,436 100 % 13,895 100 % 14,375 100 % Average 6.8  7.2  7.1   SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2019 2020 # % # % # % Less than 1 6 6.8 % 4 4.3 % 7 7.2 % 1 - 2 9 10.2 % 14 15.0 % 7 7.2 % 3 - 5 14 15.9 % 8 8.6 % 15 15.5 % 6 - 10 30 34.1 % 30 32.3 % 24 24.7 % 11 - 14 15 17.1 % 16 17.2 % 20 20.6 % 15+ 14 15.9 % 21 22.6 % 24 24.8 % Total 88 100 % 93 100 % 97 100 % Average 10.2  10.8  10.8  SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2019 2020 # % # % # % Less than 30 0 0.0 % 0 0.0 % 0 0.0 % 30-39 4 4.6 % 5 5.4 % 8 8.3 % 40-49 32 36.4 % 32 34.4 % 38 39.2 % 50+ 52 59.0 % 56 60.2 % 51 52.5 % Total 88 100 % 93 100 % 97 100 % Average 50.9  51.3  50.3  Region WORKFORCE 2019 2020 # % # % # % Asia Pacific 3,672 25.4 % 3,493 25.1 % 3,633 25.3 % Europe, Middle   East, Africa2,957 20.5 % 2,766 19.9 % 3,037 21.1 % Latin America 3,777 26.2 % 3,734 26.9 % 3,947 27.5 % North America 4,030 27.9 % 3,902 28.1 % 3,758 26.1 % Total 14,436 100 % 13,895 100 % 14,375 100 % SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2019 2020 # % # % # % Asia Pacific 2 2.3 % 4 4.3 % 4 4.1 % Europe, Middle   East, Africa18 20.5 % 20 21.5 % 21 21.7 % Latin America 0 0.0 % 0 0.0 % 0 0.0 % North America 68 77.2 % 69 74.2 % 72 74.2 % Total 88 100 % 93 100 % 97 100 %CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)50 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTPay Equity Analysis As part of our DEI strategy for 2021, we identified the need to  assess our pay equity as an organization.
The goal of this work was  to determine if, as an organization, we have any systemic bias with  respect to gender and ethnicity in our compensation programs.
We  completed a gender pay equity analysis globally, however, due to data  and privacy legislation, it has only been possible to conduct ethnicity  analysis in the U.S. To do this, we engaged external advisors to conduct  an independent pay equity analysis, which considered factors such as  role similarity, experience level, education, performance, and tenure.
We are proud to report that no systemic gender or ethnicity bias in our  compensation programs was identified.
Employee Resource Groups Our employees created and launched our Employee Resource Groups  in 2016.
Managed by employees, Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)  are examples of how we have invested in our employees, people, and  culture.
Our ERGs help employees to improve, succeed and excel in  their careers through various workshops and virtual events.
As part of our Global DEI Strategy, we identified the need to expand  these opportunities for our employees to participate locally in ERG  groups that are important and appropriate for each region.
As such we  have expanded participation of ERGs to all our regional sites.
By the end of 2021, we had 15 distinct ERGs with approximately 2,000  members, which equates to approximately 15% of our workforce.
“As an LGBTQ+ employee, I strive to  strengthen the company culture by bringing  my authentic self to the workplace in  my capacity as a PRISM leader and an  R&D Engineer.
Valuing authenticity and  demonstrating belonging throughout all  identities and backgrounds, PRISM strives  to generate diversity, equity, and inclusion  outcomes at all levels of the organization.
We foster support for LGBTQ+ employees  and allies through policies and practices,  diversity recruitment and education, and  community engagement.
We reinforce  company culture by putting people at the  center of everything we do.” Amanda Guido R&D Engineer and PRISM ERG LeaderPride Month (PRISM)Juneteenth  (AAPN) Customer Experience  Week (OXYGEN)Global Employee Health  and Fitness MonthInternational   Women’s Day (WILL) We launched an internal and external  communications campaign highlighting half  a dozen women leaders throughout our  global offices and sites.
This campaign  included social media posts, email, and  videos from each spotlighted leader.
We  also had an employee led lunch and learn,  “Choose to Challenge: Perseverance.”Teleflex hosted a  number of events to  celebrate the African  American community  and the abolition of  slavery.
These events  included Juneteenth  Jeopardy, a happy  hour, and a “Buy  Black” campaign  event.
On June 8, PRISM hosted an  Intersectionality virtual event with a leader  from Teleflex to create an open dialogue,  which was one of many events hosted  throughout the month.
This week of events and  programming helped our  employees to learn how to build  relationships, meet and learn  about their colleagues, and how  to face challenges from  customers.
WILL hosted physical and  mental wellness events to  promote the benefits of a  healthy lifestyle to employees.
• Women Inspiring Learning and Leadership (WILL)  • African American Professionals Network (AAPN)  • PRISM (LGTBQ)  • OXYGEN for Young Professionals and the Young at Heart  • Working Parents Network  • Veteran’s ERG (VERG)Our Employee Resource Groups put together many  resources, events, and communications for the company  throughout the year.
Below are a few of the key stories:   Employee Resource GroupsCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)51 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTEmployee Recognition To recognize and honor our employees’ dedication,  innovation, and integrity, we encourage our managers  and employees to regularly reward achievements and  celebrate milestones.
We launched our Teleflex Smiles Program which enables  employees to provide on-the-spot recognition to peers  for their use of the C.A.R.E Principles and Teleflex Core  Values.
It is simple: employees give teammates ‘Smiles’  or nominations which translate into points that can be  accumulated and redeemed for Teleflex gear or directed  to a charitable donation.
The program is currently  available to U.S. and Canada based employees and will  be rolled out to other regions later in 2022 and 2023.
The Smiles Program was created in response to feedback  received via U.S. employee engagement surveys.
The  goal of the Smiles program is to celebrate employee  contributions while increasing recognition of customer- centric behavior to ultimately improve Teleflex’s ability to  provide a world class customer experience.Teleflex C.A.R.E Principles are:  • Connect Personally – taking the time to understand what   customers and colleagues value and their definition of success.
• Anticipate Needs – staying ahead of the curve and always thinking  about where things go next to deliver exceptional experiences.
• Resolve Quickly – committing to timely replies to questions and  concerns and making people feel heard.
• Exceed Expectations – making efforts to surprise and delight   with every interaction to earn people’s trust and loyalty.Teleflex also grants global, regional, and business unit awards such  as the Impact Award, C.A.R.E. Award, and various awards focusing on  sales goals.
The prestigious Teleflex Chairman’s Award recognizes employees  who make a significant business impact while exemplifying Teleflex’s  Core Values.
All full and part-time employees and teams globally are  eligible, finalists are determined by a global Award Committee, and  the ultimate winner(s) are selected by the Teleflex Chairman.
Chairman’s Award Criteria Significant and measurable business impact in one   of the following areas: • Innovation  For example, process or system improvement, product  introduction, technological advancement.
• Customer Focus  For example, retention of key external customer, going  above and beyond for an internal customer.
• Productivity  Driving change that translates to measurable increased  productivity.
• Sustainability  Helping Teleflex act with even greater purpose relative to  the sustainability of our business, our environment, and  the causes closest to us in our local communities.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)Contents  About this Report Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements CEO Message CSR Chair Message Teleflex at a Glance Our Products Our Impact Portfolio Optimization  Product Development  Our Supply Chain - Global Procurement - Manufacturing  - Distribution and Logistics - Commercial Organization and Customers  Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholder Engagement  Continued Support for Employees through the COVID-19 Pandemic Principles of Ethics and Governance Corporate Governance  - Board of Directors - Executive Compensation  Participating in Public Policy Industry Groups and Trade Associations Driving a Culture of Compliance: Integrity in All We Do - The Teleflex Promise: Our Global Code of Ethics - Policies and Procedures: Providing a Framework for Success - Training and Communication: Supporting and Reinforcing our Message  29- Auditing and Monitoring:  Understanding how our Policies and Training are Working in Practice - Reporting and Investigations: Encouraging a Speak-Up Culture  Annual Teleflex Enterprise Risk Assessment Sales and Marketing Practices IT Security & Privacy Planet and Environment  Product Stewardship and Circularity Responsible Consumption and Production  - Water  - Safe Materials and Chemicals  - Logistics and Distribution Emissions and Climate change - Emissions and Energy Targets  - Energy  Waste  People  Talent Management and Development  Tuition Assistance Benefits  Family Support  Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion - DEI Leadership - Inclusive Leadership Training  - DEI in Recruitment - DEI in Retention - Pay Equity Analysis 2021 49- Employee Resource Groups  Employee Recognition  Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People - Occupational Health and Safety Management  - Identifying and Managing Hazards - Employee Consultation  - Health and Safety Training - Employee Health and Safety Tracking Prosperity and Sustainable Healthcare Product Training and Education: Engage, Educate, Align Medical Education Grants Clinical Research Clinical Research Grants Healthcare Access and Equity Innovation, Safety and Quality from Concept to Commercialization - Research, Development and Innovation  - Product Quality and Safety - Labor and Supplier Standards  Philanthropy  - Teleflex Foundation  - Ukraine Support  - Humanitarian Donations  Community Engagement  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) INDEX Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index  United Nation Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) 6752 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTThe winners of the 2021 Teleflex Chairman’s Award were:   • John Reidy, Regional Sales Manager,   New Zealand    When the New Zealand Ministry of Health faced  a critical shortage of filters, they called John for  help.
He quickly navigated the global supply  chain to locate Teleflex inventory outside of New  Zealand, gathered clinical data to demonstrate  product suitability for use and training, and  secured rapid product delivery, enhancing  Teleflex’s positioning with the Ministry and  impacting thousands of patient lives.
• Malaysia Crisis Management Team   (Kamunting and Kulim, Malaysia)    Composed of: Mohamad Zaidi Ismail, Charles  Schrenk, Muneswaren Gandhi, Lin Im Tan,  Bathmanathan Kallianna Gounder, Norsurianti  Karim, Sharifah Shafini Tungku Syed Petra,  Maruthavaanam Ponnusamy, Azhar Ahmad  Ahmed Rifaie, Muniandy A/L Songappen    As a result of COVID-19, the Malaysian  government set stringent parameters for  allowing our manufacturing facilities to operate  at full capacity.
Teleflex was required to conduct  bi-weekly testing for all employees, provide  acceptable PPE, ensure employee permits met  shifting formatting standards, and maintain a  minimum of 90% vaccination status at the site  to maintain a steady product supply.
This team  implemented an internal online tracking tool  in less than two weeks and manually collected  data for production associates, helping to ensure  employee safety.• Specialty EPIC Center Team   (Maple Grove, MN, Plymouth, MN and Gurnee,  Illinois, USA; Limerick, Ireland)    Composed of: Nate Rhodes, John Kirchgessner,  Greg Gabay, Philip O’Malley, Jason Purcell,  Patrick Campion, Ray Ledinsky    This team drove the implementation of the  IDEA Process in our OEM EPIC Centers in  Limerick, Ireland, Maple Grove, Minnesota and,  most recently, in Plymouth, Minnesota.
EPIC  addresses the four key components of new  product development (Engineering, Prototyping,  Innovation, and Collaboration) and emphasizes  user needs and customer focus.
In 2021, team  members opened the Plymouth location and  immediately exceeded expectations for securing  new business and collaborating with customers.
They significantly outpaced their original target  for 2021 Non-Recurring Engineering revenue.• IT Cyber Security Team (Chihuahua, Mexico;  Hradec, Czech Republic; Morrisville, NC and  Wayne, PA, USA)    Composed of: Matt Bartush, Angelo Candler,  Pavel Gonda, Will Hardeman Jason Lesko,  Bobby Neal, Alan Olivas, Nick Sabinske,   Eric Scott    To meet compliance requirements, this team  implemented a multi-factor authentication VPN  solution - a process that typically takes up to four  months - in just 47 days.
The new technology  was deployed to 7,000 Teleflex VPN users,  with no disruption to employee productivity.
The solution strengthened our cyber security,  improved user experience, and ensured  transparent access to Teleflex resources for  employees working remotely due to COVID-19.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)53 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTEmployee Health and Safety:   Our Zero Harm Vision for our People At Teleflex, we focus on Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) as a top priority for our  manufacturing sites.
Our Global Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Management  System platform is in place to protect our most valuable assets – our people.
We are fully  committed to complying with all relevant occupational health and safety legislation globally,  and we seek to continually move towards our Zero Harm Vision.
We believe that occupational health is an implicit part of occupational safety and risk  controls.
The main difference between the two is that safety refers to a specific incident  or situation whereas health is about the long-term health of the employee.
Occupational  health management at the site level utilizes the same mechanisms as those employed for  occupational safety.
All employee health information is kept fully confidential, via our secure  data protections which are built into our systems.
Our health and wellness programs include working initiatives related to nutrition, building- in adequate physical activity, stress management, heart health and more to help our  employees improve their health and wellbeing.
“The health and safety of our employees is paramount and  the management effort by our sites and their leadership  is a continual focus.
I am proud of our Zero Harm Vision,  knowing that this program is making a meaningful impact  on our employees.”  Brian Greham Global EHS Director CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)54 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTCEO Regional EHS  Senior Manager (US and EMEA) EHS Advisors (site level)Regional EHS  Senior Manager (APAC) Regional EHS  Manager (Mexico)Chief HR  Officer VP , HR Global Operations Global EHS DirectorAt Teleflex, we have implemented a global  occupational health and safety management  system, which is aligned to ISO 45001 (OSH  Management Systems).
Each site also has a Core  Management System (CMS), which is governed  by our Global Environmental Health and  Safety (EHS) Manual and covers all personnel  (employees, contractors, visitors, etc.) across  our Global Operations and OEM businesses.
Commercial sites are governed by a simplified  occupational health and safety management  protocol and each CMS site must also have a  professional acting as EHS advisor.
EHS risk management is a continual focus, and  as such, the Teleflex EHS Risk Management  Process is used to identify work-related hazards,  apply the hierarchy of controls (in order to  eliminate hazards and minimize risks) and  identify the right blend of best practice risk  controls.
We utilize the Plan, Do, Check, Act  (PDCA) model to drive continual improvement of  occupational health and safety.
Non-Conformity  detection and resolution (via corrective actions)  also drive continual improvement, as do site  based EHS Committees, with governance and  auditing driven by the Global EHS Function.
Quality is driven by the requirement to identify  and align with published best practice risk  controls, with oversight by each site EHS  Advisor and governance via Regional EHS  Managers.
The EHS Risk Management process  is first utilized when implementing the initial  CMS at the specific site and re-triggered by the  site‘s management of change (MOC) program,  which helps capture change in the workplace,  equipment, systems and people.
This is done by  incident investigations; observation programs;  task design/standard operating procedures,  monitoring and supervision, and audit output.
The MOC process triggers the reapplication  of our EHS Risk Management Process when  change is identified.
Each CMS also has an EHS  Improvements Register (EHSIR), which acts  as a non-conformity register, driving continual  improvement.
A focus on our 4P’s model means a strategic  approach to managing: Place (of work, i.e., safe  ‘workplaces’), Plant (safe plant and equipment),  Process (management systems) and People.
We continue to upgrade and improve our  facilities and offices across our global footprint to help ensure safe workplaces for our  employees and others on site.
We continually  assess our facilities and the equipment used  within them to ensure health and safety  considerations are built into their selection, use,  operations, and maintenance.
We focus on our management systems at each  location to help ensure governing structures  facilitate our Zero Harm Vision, and we  continually invest in our people via OHS training  to help ensure we keep them safe and manage  occupational health effectively.
Occupational Health and Safety Management In 2022,we will strive   for continual improvement  toward our   Zero Harm Vision.Occupational Health and Safety  GovernanceCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)55 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTIdentifying and Managing Hazards Within each site’s CMS, there is a process for workers to report  work-related hazards and hazardous situations.
Employees can  do this via our Zero Harm Grassroots Teams, EHS Observations  Incentive Drivers, and consultation mechanisms like our EHS  Committee interface.
Teleflex’s ethics program provides protection  to employees from any reprisals or retaliation and our Open and  Just Culture – our open and honest reporting environment program  – helps eliminate misplaced culpability.
Employees can also remove  themselves from work situations that they believe could cause  injury or ill health and report such situations through our various  reporting mechanisms.
Our incident investigation process was created under the Risk  Management Program (RMP) umbrella and aligns with Teleflex’s  global standards for EHS incident management.
The standard  requires all EHS incidents to be investigated and at least  one nonconformity to be identified (with corrective actions).
Identification of root cause and corrective action(s) is the  mechanism to determine where improvements are needed in the  occupational health and safety management system.
Employee Consultation It is particularly important for our employees to have a voice when  it comes to their health and safety.
Our Global EHS Manual requires  each site to facilitate employee communication channels and relay  information or concerns to management about health and safety  process changes, changes to site rules, or management systems.
Within each site’s Core Management System, employees can utilize  our Grass Roots Zero Harm teams, the EHS committee interface or  our Open and Just Culture.
This also helps to encompass local or  regional employee representative organizations (such as unions)  into the communication and consultation processes.
Each site has  a local EHS committee in which employees can participate and  consult.
Information about work-related incidents and the output of  investigations to address nonconformities is readily available at site  level.
Health and Safety Training At Teleflex, health and safety training is required for all employees.
Through the site’s CMS, each site identifies specific training that is  required for all employees.
Before any new employee starts working  at a site, they must attend induction training, which includes both  an orientation and any required EHS trainings.
Supervisors and  management are also required to complete the same trainings.
Each site EHS Training Register captures aspects such as: training requirements, required frequency of retraining, completion target  dates, and completion status.
The training courses detail the roles  and responsibilities for the specific jobs as well as the potential  consequences of non-conformity with EHS risk controls.
Each  site also has mechanisms in place to manage and identify any  contractor or visitor business relationships that may require specific  occupational health and safety risk management for sites.
Employee Health and Safety Tracking We track and monitor Occupational Safety and Health indicators  including health and safety incidents, via multiple classifications  covering non injury, injury and ill-health.
We also use the  internationally comparable DART Rate (days away/restricted or  transfer rate), which is a calculation of the number of work-related  injuries or illnesses per 100 employees.
Through our ‘Zero Harm’  strategy and processes, we have maintained a low level of overall  injury severity rate per 100 employees with our 2021 DART rate  of 0.59, an improvement from 0.76 in 2020 and 0.94 in 2019 and  compares favorably to the industry.
We have not experienced a  work-related fatality by either an employee or on-site contractor  at our manufacturing and distribution facilities in the past three  years.12  In 2022, we will strive for continual improvement toward  our Zero Harm Vision.
12 DART Rate and fatality figures are across our manufacturing and distribution sites.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)56 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Prosperity & Sustainable  HealthcareCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)57 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTProsperity & Sustainable Healthcare  Product Training and  Education: Engage, Educate,  Align To help ensure that all healthcare professionals are using Teleflex  products in a safe and effective manner, we provide comprehensive  product training and education that is focused on increasing  procedural confidence and advancing patient care.
The training we  provide allows healthcare professionals to increase their clinical  competencies, regardless of the care setting.
We regularly seek  ways to evolve and innovate with respect to our training programs,  and we utilize our partnerships with medical organizations and  academic institutions to aid in these efforts.
We use hands-on skills  labs, procedural training, our Teleflex Academy online learning,  speaker series, and conferences to provide a holistic educational  approach.
The Teleflex Academy training content is created with  regional considerations taken into account and is available in  multiple languages.
We focus our product training and education  on addressing unmet educational needs and requirements of our  customers, regardless of size or location.At Teleflex, we are in the business of improving the health  and quality of people’s lives.
In working towards that  mission, improving access to all our products, providing  product training offered in-person and virtually, increasing  medical education, and improving our clinical trial diversity  are some of our top priorities.
We recognize that the data derived from clinical research  needs to reflect the demographics of the intended population.
Our teams are also driven by a need to help the local  communities in which we live and work.
We established  a philanthropic foundation as well as an employee-driven  community engagement team, JOIN, because we believe it is  important to leave a positive impact on the community.
"Our dedicated team of professionals  executed on key initiatives that supported  healthcare providers around the world  who deliver essential care.
We believe  all patients deserve access to innovative  technology." Michelle Fox Corporate Vice President and   Chief Medical Officer CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)58 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTIn 2021, we expanded our offerings on Teleflex Academy, which  were accessed by clinicians across 88 countries, with healthcare  staff accumulating over 56,000 continuing education credits,  collectively.
In addition, to help ensure educational offerings  are available more broadly, our Clinical and Medical Affairs  teams in Southeast Asia and Latin America prioritize training for  emergency services personnel in rural areas.
Throughout 2021, we utilized existing, and implemented  new, digital learning platforms to support our customers and  healthcare professionals, while maintaining appropriate safety  requirements.
Between both our in-person and virtual platforms,  we educated more than 130,000 healthcare professionals on the  safe and effective use of our products in 2021, which is up from  60,000 in 2020.• Our Clinical and Medical Affairs team attended the 20th  International Meeting of the Polish Society of Anesthesiology  and Intensive Care in 2021.
The team delivered two  procedural vascular workshops “Right Line, Right Now  in Intensive Therapy.” The main focus of the course was  on maintaining vascular health and preservation and the  correct choice of devices to support the use of the right line,  for the right patient, at the right time, in different clinical  situations.
The lecture and practical workshop served to  give participants knowledge, skills, and practical experience  in ultrasound assessment, needling techniques, PICC and  midline placement, and the use of Arrow® EZ-IO® for vascular  access.
• It is extremely important that our sales team understands  exactly how our products are used by healthcare  professionals.
Product training is a very important tool to  gain knowledge and improve skills about a certain product  range – even for products that have been in our portfolio  for years.
For example, in October 2021, during the sales  meeting in Germany, our Clinical and Medical Affairs team  gave a product training on our Vascular Access business unit  followed up by a hands-on workshop.Case Study  CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)59 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTMedical Education Grants Teleflex is committed to supporting independent educational  endeavors that are consistent with our mission to improve health  outcomes.
All unsolicited Medical Education Grant requests for  monetary and/or in-kind support are reviewed by our regional  Grant Panels including representatives from our Business  Units, Finance, Compliance and chaired by Clinical and Medical  Affairs.
Teleflex provides Medical Education Grants   for the following categories: • Continuing medical education programs presented by  accredited providers • Education programs for healthcare professionals • Medical society grant funded programs  Guidelines for Medical Education Grants: • Educational focus • Independence • Balance • Broad audienceClinical Research Obtaining robust clinical evidence supporting our products is  paramount at Teleflex.
We use our clinical research team as a  way to develop new products and expand existing products.
We conduct clinical research using the principles of Good  Clinical Practice and adhere to all local and regional regulatory  requirements.
Our clinical research is managed by Global  Clinical Operations in coordination with regional Clinical and  Medical Affairs team members.
All clinical research initiated by  Teleflex is reviewed by an institutional review board or ethics  committee.
Minorities and other special groups have been under- represented in clinical trials in the past, but we want to change  that.
We recognize that there is a need and value to expand  diversity and inclusiveness in clinical research.13 Teleflex is  committed to developing clinical trials that clearly represent  the demographic diversity of the populations in the regions  where the research is being conducted and where the product  will be going to market.
Considering diversity in the clinical  trial population will help to ensure that the products are being  developed to meet the needs of the specific population.
We add  any Teleflex initiated research on ClinicalTrials.gov and any  patients that are interested in volunteering for a trial can find  more information there.
13 See, e.g., https://www.fda.gov/consumers/minority-health-and-health-equity/clinical-trial-diversity and   https://acrpnet.org/2020/08/10/representation-in-clinical-trials-a-review-on-reaching-underrepresented-populations-in-research/CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)60 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTClinical Research Grants Teleflex has its own robust clinical research arm, but we know it is important for the  entire medical community to have access to resources to continue clinical research.
We provide research grants and support to healthcare providers in areas that are  complementary to Teleflex’s business and products.
All incoming requests are  reviewed and managed by Global Clinical Operations, which is a part of our Clinical  and Medical Affairs Organization.
This team reviews the requests to ensure that all  supported studies are conducted in accordance with the applicable study protocol,  applicable institutional policies, generally accepted standards of Good Clinical  Practice (GCP), and all applicable laws and regulations.
Healthcare professionals  from private practices, hospitals, academic medical centers, and universities are all  eligible recipients for our research grants.
As of December 31, 2021, Teleflex had 11  open grants which include grants across various business units, with a total value of  over $580,000.
Healthcare Access and Equity Clinical and Medical Affairs actively expanded geographic availability of key  educational offerings by adding virtual options where possible.
Translation of focus  programs to various local languages was also completed, and the courses were  added to the Teleflex Academy website.
These efforts have ensured relevant content  is widely available to clinicians using Teleflex products, expanding our ability to  support the safe and effective use of our products.
This has also been done in a  manner that takes into account local language and cultural considerations.
Clinical  and Medical Affairs plans to continue its efforts to expand in this area, making  content accessible in more languages and geographies to ensure equitable access to  educational programs.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)61 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTResearch, Development and Innovation Our main Research and Development objectives are to provide  innovative new, safe, and effective products that enhance clinical value  by reducing infections, improving patient and healthcare professional  safety, enhancing patient outcomes, and enabling less invasive  procedures.
We recently created a new state-of-the-art technology  center with improved environmental controls, which is used by our  U.S. R&D team.
We have developed clinical access partnerships with universities that  have clinical programs and technologies that align with our business  segments, as part of our strategy to strengthen our early-stage product  development portfolio and increase the number of products developed  in-house.
In addition to our internal R&D, we look to acquire or license  products and technologies that are in-line with our strategic objectives  and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service  options to healthcare professionals and thus improve the health and  quality of people’s lives.
Product Quality and Safety We develop, manufacture, and distribute clinically relevant medical  products, and the quality and safety of Teleflex products and services  is at the core of our business.
We have Quality Management Systems  to ensure that products and services meet customer requirements  and comply with the applicable standards and regulations governing  them.
Our “Think Quality, Think Teleflex” initiative encourages our  employees to always remain committed to product quality and safety.
Labor and Supplier Standards We ensure compliance with globally recognized labor standards  established by organizations, such as the International Labor  Organization (ILO) and the U.S. Department of Labor among others,  and is detailed in our Labor Standards Assurance Policy.
Our  dedicated Labor Standards Assurance System (LSAS) program in  place is managed by our Purchasing Controls Team and assesses our  suppliers on a range of labor and supplier standards.
These issues  range from working conditions in our facilities, and throughout  our supply chain, to ensuring that our sourcing and manufacturing  processes are managed in a sustainable way.
To support these efforts, we provide internal training on LSAS and  communicate and reinforce our expectations with our suppliers.
As  part of our onboarding process, each supplier is asked to complete  a Labor Standards questionnaire and the responses and supporting  evidence is added to the vendor file for future reference.
We currently  have over 500 suppliers in our LSAS program, and to date we have  not identified any suppliers that have had significant Labor Standard  issues.
Innovation, Safety and  Quality from Concept to  Commercialization In 2020, we launched our Concept to Commercialization  (C2C) process, which is intended to transform patient care  through a standardized product development process.
The C2C process lays out how Teleflex executes product  development across all business units.
We look at the entire  product lifecycle from concept, design, manufacturing, and  use of product to ensure a data driven approach, clarity of  expectations and measures of success.
Human Factors is an  obvious and critical element of our C2C product development  process.
By integrating Human Factors, we are ensuring  we use the knowledge about human capabilities (physical,  sensory, emotional, and intellectual).
The integration  of Human Factors also means that we understand the  limitations, characteristics and needs of our end users.
We  believe that Human Factors sets our product design up for  success early in the development process and results in less  rework, fewer customer complaints and ultimately drives  patient safety and an overall better user experience.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)62 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTPhilanthropy Teleflex Foundation In 1979, we established The Teleflex Foundation with  the sole objective to positively impact the quality of life  in the community.
When we review charities and non- profits to which we donate, we consider those that would  help to further Teleflex’s purpose of improving the health  and quality of people’s lives.
The Teleflex Foundation  puts a specific emphasis on organizations that have the  commitment of, or a direct impact on, our employees,  their families and the communities in which we operate.
In  2021, Teleflex donated $1 million to the Foundation, which  will allow the Foundation to further expand its important  philanthropic work for years to come.
We are proud to  report that roughly 90% of the Foundation’s annual budget  is allocated for giving and the remaining 10% goes towards  management of the Foundation’s endowment, administrative  costs, and tax filing expenses.
In 2021, the Foundation  donated a total of approximately $195,000.
In addition, the Teleflex Foundation makes an annual gift to  Americares, a global health-focused relief and development  organization that supports people affected by disaster or  poverty.
Ukraine Support At the onset of the crisis, a working group was formed  to facilitate an expedited, comprehensive review of  humanitarian donation requests.
Teleflex is working directly  with established humanitarian organizations.
All our  financial and product donations are being made to these  global organizations, which are well-positioned to make  an immediate difference to those directly impacted by the  crisis.
The working group also provided opportunities for  employees to engage, donate, and volunteer to support  those impacted by the crisis.
Humanitarian Donations Being a global medical device manufacturer, Teleflex  believes we have a responsibility to the public to provide  humanitarian support where needed.
Our Humanitarian  Donation Program aids in the event of natural disasters  and to help improve the quality of life of those living in  vulnerable situations.
In developing our program, we used  the World Health Organization (WHO) Guidelines on Medical  Device Donations to help provide structure and guidance.
Donation requests are reviewed by our Humanitarian  Product Donation Working Group, which is chaired by our  Chief Medical Officer and comprised of representatives from  several of our non-commercial functions, including Clinical  and Medical Affairs, Compliance, Regulatory and Trade  Compliance.
• Make a Difference (MAD) Grant  Each year, The Teleflex Foundation awards cash grants to healthcare related  charities and other non-profits nominated by our employees.
Our Foundation  Board Officers review these nominations and prioritize them in large part  based on level of employee engagement with the organization, for example  as a volunteer or benefactor.
• Matching Gifts  The Teleflex Foundation matches employee gifts of $50 and above to eligible  charities and non-profits up to $2,000 per donor on an annual basis.
• Team Volunteer Program  The Teleflex Foundation provides grants of $1,000 for teams of 5 or more  Teleflex employees participating in events to raise money for eligible  charities and non-profits.
The Teleflex Foundation encourages employee engagement  through the following programs: CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)63 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Community Engagement JOIN, our employee-driven community engagement and  volunteerism initiative, continues to be a call to join in  and act with purpose.
Our employees have united under  the same common goal and sense of purpose in their  everyday jobs and beyond.
In 2021, our JOIN initiative focused on protecting  nature and caring for our natural environment.
We  organize and manage various volunteering events and  efforts throughout the year, but we also encourage our  employees to act with purpose at home or during their  personal time as well.
It can be as small and simple  as planting bee-friendly plants or growing fruits and  vegetables at home.
We ask all our employees to join in  with us to bring about a positive change in the world.
Our JOIN Champions are individuals in each of our  regional offices and facilities that are dedicated to leading  our local initiatives.
They represent the employees at their  sites and assist in the coordination of employee driven  initiatives that are focused on volunteer activities in the  community, wellbeing activities for our employees and  activities that focus on the sustainability of our planet.
Throughout 2021, our team was very busy with several  volunteer events and donation drives.South Africa Beach Clean   The Teleflex team in South Africa organized a beach  clean in Cape Town to help reduce local plastic  pollution and raise community awareness about  the issue of marine microplastic debris.
During this  event, the team collected plastic debris and other  litter found on the beach and in the water.
Our employee-driven community  engagement and volunteerism initiative Wayne, PA, U.S. Operation Gratitude In Wayne, Pennsylvania, the Teleflex team  partnered with Operation Gratitude in their  Halloween Candy Give Back Program.
Excess  Halloween candy collected throughout the office  and donations were shipped to First Responder,  Military, and Veteran heroes.
What inspires is the strong focus Teleflex has on sustainable  social development.
As a company, we continue to create  excitement, and cultural transformation and inspire people  around the world by JO IN initiatives.
M.R Murugesan  Human Resources Manager, APAC Being involved in our JO IN Act with Purpose initiative since  its inception has really enriched my experience at Teleflex.
I continue to be impressed by the motivation and compassion  of our employees to make a difference at work and in their  communities.
Paige Ingelsby Global Internal Communications Manager  Being a JO IN Champion means a lot to me.
I enjoy organizing  activities, but above all, to know that you have helped others is  one of the most rewarding feelings of all.
It´s an excellent  opportunity to treasure unique and very valuable experiences  that would be more difficult to experience in your daily day.
Susana Fernández Sales and Marketing Assistant CU&IC  Southeast Asia Water Works Program The Teleflex team in Southeast Asia collaborated  with a local charity to build water filtration systems,  which are to be donated to people in the area who  do not have access to safe drinking water.
The  water filtration systems are compact and portable  and are designed to enable emergency crews  to respond quickly to natural disasters and help  prevent avoidable disease outbreaks during such  circumstances.Here are just a few of the many  stories from last year: CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)64 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTCompany Awards   • Forbes 2021 America’s Best Midsize Employers • Great Place To Work (India) April 21-Mar • 2022 Best Place to Work Winner (MedReps) • NSAI Excellence Through People Certified (2021) Platinum Level • Forbes Best Employers For Diversity • Human Rights Campaign 2022 Corporate Equality Index CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)65 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTThanks to All who Supported • Alberto Toledo, Operations Manager (Mexico) • Alyssa Shin, Manager, External Reporting (U.S.) • Amanda Guido, R&D Engineer, Sustaing (U.S.) • Amee Chokshi, Learning Management Analyst (U.S.) • Asweny AP Kolanthaivelu, EHS Engineer (Malaysia) • Baburaj P , Assistant Manager, Global Supply Chain (India)   • Balachandar Elangovan, EHS Manager (India) • Bathmanathan K G, Senior, EHS Manager (Malaysia) • Brandon Hohl, Director, External Reporting (U.S.) • Brendan Delaney, Director of Purchasing Controls (Ireland) • Brian Greham, Global Director EH&S (Ireland) • Cameron Hicks, Corporate VP and Chief Human Resource  Officer (U.S.) • Cathal O’Reilly, Senior Director Operations Excellence (Ireland) • Chuck Fliehman, VP, Business Practices, Information Security,   Privacy and Compliance (U.S.) • Colin Curran, VP Human Resources, Global Operations (Ireland) • D Mohanaraj, General Manager (India) • Dan Logue, Corporate VP, General Counsel and Secretary (U.S.) • Daniel Price, Corporate VP, Commercial Finance (U.K.) • Danielle O’Brien, Sr. Director, Finance (U.S.) • David O’Flynn, Sustainability Director (Ireland)• Deborah McCarthy-Platz, Facilities and EHS Engineer (U.S.) • Denisse Hernandez, Enterprise Excellence Site Leader (Mexico)  • Derek Noah, Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Manager (U.S.) • Diana Clifford, VP, Total Rewards (U.S.) • Dominik Reterski, Corporate VP, QA/RA (Ireland) • Emma Pollard, Director Global Talent (Netherlands)  • Emmet Dalton, VP, Global Brands, Digital, and Communications (Ireland) • Fran Kiedeisch, Director, Technical Services (U.S.) • Howard Cyr, Corporate VP, Chief Compliance Officer (U.S.) • James Winters, Corporate VP, Manufacturing and Supply Chain (Ireland) • Jay White, Corporate VP and President, Global Commercial (U.S.)  • Jia Xu, Head of CMA, APAC (China) • John Deren, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (U.S.) • John Hsu, VP Investor Relations (U.S.) • Justin McMurray, VP Global Strategic Research and Development (U.S.) • Karen Boylan, Corporate VP, Strategic Projects (Ireland) • Lawrence Keusch, VP, Investor Relations and Strategy Development (U.S.) • Liam Kelly, Chairman, President and CEO (U.S.) • Lukas Koutnik, Senior Enterprise Excellence Engineer (Czech Republic) • Malena Van der Merwe, Tender Manager (South Africa) • Marie Hendrixson, VP, Internal Audit (U.S.)• Mary O’Malley, Senior Design Manager, Marketing Communications  International (Ireland) • Matt Becka, VP CMA International (U.S.) • Matt Tomkin, Corporate VP, Corporate Development (U.S.) • Michelle Fox, Corporate VP and Chief Medical Officer (U.S.) • Mohamad Zaidi Bin Ismail, Director of Facility (Malaysia) • Mohd Hafiz Abdul Halim Shah, Senior Energy Engineer (Malaysia)  • Monika Hegarty-Vikander, VP, Human Resources, Global  Commercial and Talent Development (Ireland) • Muhammad Omar Asyraf, Bin Facilities Manager (Malaysia) • P .
Gopalakrishnan, Production Planning Senior Manager (India) • Petr Seifert, Facility Manager (Czech Republic) • Renee Twardzik, Global External Communications Manager (U.S.) • Sam Miriello, Senior Regional EHS Manager U.S. and EMEA (U.S.) • Sara Eslinger, Sr. Director, Product Quality Assurance (U.S.) • Shanté Demary, Director of Strategic Pricing and Contract  Management (U.S.) • Shay McMahon, VP, Global Procurement (Ireland) • Thomas Powell, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer (U.S.) • Tim Duffy, VP, and Chief Information Officer (U.S.) • Tosin Lediju, EH&S Engineer (U.S.) • Whitney Reynolds, VP Global Customer Experience (U.S.)CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)66 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Global Reporting  InitiativeCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)67 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index GRI 2021   StandardsDISCLOSURE LOCATION General Disclosures GRI 2: General  Disclosures  20212-1 Organizational details “Teleflex at a Glance” 2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting “About this Report” 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point “About this Report” 2-4 Restatements of information None 2-5 External assurance None 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Annual Report (10K) 2-7 Employees “Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion” 2-8 Workers who are not employees Omitted – information note available at this time.
2-9 Governance structure and composition Investor Relations 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Investor Relations 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Investor Relations 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts “Corporate Social Responsibility” 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts “Corporate Social Responsibility”Statement of useTeleflex has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period   January 1, 2021, to December 31, 2021.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)68 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGRI 2021   StandardsDISCLOSURE LOCATION General Disclosures GRI 2: General  Disclosures  20212-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting “Corporate Social Responsibility” 2-15 Conflicts of interest Investor Relations 2-16 Communication of critical concerns Investor Relations 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Investor Relations 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Investor Relations 2-19 Remuneration policies Investor Relations 2-20 Process to determine remuneration Investor Relations 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Investor Relations 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy “CEO Message” and “Corporate Social Responsibility Chair Message” 2-23 Policy commitments Corporate Social Responsibility 2-24 Embedding policy commitments Corporate Social Responsibility 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Throughout report 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Code of Ethics 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulationsAs a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange  Act filings.
Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
2-28 Membership associations “Industry Groups and Trade Associations” 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement “Stakeholder Engagement” 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements  Teleflex Labour Standards Assurance PolicyCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)69 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGRI 2021   StandardsDISCLOSURE LOCATION Material Topics GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-1 Process to determine material topics “Corporate Social Responsibility” 3-2 List of material topics “Corporate Social Responsibility” Economic Performance GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics Annual Report (10K) GRI 201:  Economic  Performance  2016201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report (10K) 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Annual Report (10K) 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report (10K) Anti-corruption GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Principles of Ethics & Governance” GRI 205:   Anti- corruption   2016205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption “Principles of Ethics & Governance” 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures “Principles of Ethics & Governance” 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions takenAs a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange  Act filings.
Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)70 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGRI 2021   StandardsDISCLOSURE LOCATION Anti-competitive behavior GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Principles of Ethics & Governance” GRI 206:   Anti- competitive  Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practicesAs a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange  Act filings.
Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
Energy GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Emissions and Climate Change” GRI 302:  Energy 2016302-4 Reduction of energy consumption “Emissions and Climate Change” Emissions GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Emissions and Climate Change” GRI 305:  Emissions 2016305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions “Emissions and Climate Change” Waste GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Product Stewardship and Circularity” and “Waste” GRI 306:   Waste 2020306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts “Product Stewardship and Circularity” 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts “Product Stewardship and Circularity”CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)71 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGRI 2021   StandardsDISCLOSURE LOCATION Employment GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “People” GRI 401:  Employment  2016401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover ”DEI in Recruitment” and “DEI in Retention” 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- time employees”Benefits” 401-3 Parental leave ”Benefits” and “Family Support” Occupational health and safety GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” GRI 403:  Occupational  Health and  Safety 2018403-1 Occupational health and safety management system “Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation “Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” 403-3 Occupational health services “Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and  safety“Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety “Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” 403-6 Promotion of worker health “Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by  business relationships“Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system “Employee Health and Safety: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People”CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)72 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGRI 2021   StandardsDISCLOSURE LOCATION Training and education GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics ”Talent Management and Development” GRI 404:  Training and  Education 2016404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee ”Talent Management and Development” 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs “Tuition Assistance” Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics ”Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion” GRI 405:  Diversity  and Equal  Opportunity  2016405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ”Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion” Public policy GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Participating in Public Policy” GRI 415: Public  Policy 2016415-1 Political contributions “Participating in Public Policy”CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)73 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTGRI 2021   StandardsDISCLOSURE LOCATION Customer health and safety GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Innovation, Safety and Quality from Concept to Commercialization” GRI 416:  Customer  Health and  Safety 2016416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categoriesTeleflex reviews all of our products for health and safety impacts based on our QMS (Quality  Management System) and the governing regulations, particularly ISO13485 and 21CFR820, Teleflex  does not differentiate reviews for improvement or safety impact by product or service category.
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and  servicesTeleflex did not have any incidents of non-compliance that resulted in a warning (i.e. warning letter),  fine or penalty in 2021.
Marketing and labeling GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics “Sales and Marketing Practices” GRI 417:  Marketing and  Labeling 2016417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelingAs a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange  Act filings.
Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communicationsAs a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange  Act filings.
Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
Customer privacy GRI 3: Material  Topics 20213-3 Management of material topics ”IT Security and Privacy” GRI 418:  Customer  Privacy 2016418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches   of customer privacy and losses of customer data”IT Security and Privacy”CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)74 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board   (SASB) IndexCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)75 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTSustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index Topic SASB Code Metric Disclosure/Explanation Affordability   and PricingHC-MS-240a.1Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases  (for all products) to the annual increase in the U.S.  Consumer Price Index.Teleflex works with distributors and healthcare providers to agree to a price that is fair.
This process differs product  to product and country to country.
Teleflex does not provide pricing information at this time.
Factors that affect price  would typically be the commercial competitive environment, geographical market, volume commitment or duration of  contract commitment, and customer segment (e.g. hospital, distributor, military).
HC-MS-240a.2Description of how price information for each  product is disclosed to customers or to their agents.Prices are communicated through distributors or directly with healthcare providers by way of a contract, tender, price  quote, or similar pricing agreement.
In these documents, a selling price is provided, which is either based on the  approved list price (current standard selling prices available to all customers) or approved special price (negotiated  price specific to the customer).
These documents also include the fulfillment conditions for discounts and/or rebates,  if any.
As these documents are typically regarded as confidential information, relevant confidentiality clauses will be  included in these purchasing agreements.
Product SafetyHC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled.• Class 1 recalls14: • # of units: 39,• % of total Teleflex products sold in 2021: 0.0094%  • For more information regarding recalls, please refer to the F.D.A. Medical Device Recall Database HC-MS-250a.2List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety  Alerts for Human Medical Products database.MedWatch: The FDA Safety Information and Adverse Event Reporting Program HC-MS-250a.3Number of fatalities related to products as reported  in the FDA Manufacturer and User Facility Device  Experience.MAUDE - Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience HC-MS-250a.4Number of FDA enforcement actions taken  in response to violations of current Good  Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type.None  Note: This response is based on considering an “FDA enforcement action” to be the issuance of an FDA warning letter,  which Teleflex did not receive in 2021.
14 Differences compared with data on FDA websites may be due to timeframe (the date Teleflex takes an action may differ from the date FDA classifies that action), definition of "recall" (FDA data includes actions taken even if the product is not removed or corrected), and classification by product group vs.
product code (FDA counts each impacted product  code within a product family as a distinct recall).CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)76 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTopic SASB Code Metric Disclosure/Explanation Ethical  MarketingHC-MS-270a.1Total amount of monetary losses as a result of  legal proceedings associated with false marketing  claims.As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act filings.
Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
HC-MS-270a.2Description of code of ethics governing promotion  of off-label use of products.Teleflex policy strictly prohibits the promotion of a product for off-label use, as well as soliciting requests for  information on off-label use.
Teleflex has a comprehensive and robust global off-label use response program designed  to mitigate the risk of off-label promotion and to handle off-label use inquiries in accordance with current FDA and  other global regulatory agency requirements.
Importantly, off-label use response activities are managed by our medical  and scientific personnel independent from our sales and marketing departments.
As part of our off-label use response program, unsolicited off-label use inquiries and responses are reviewed, tracked,  and auditable in a centralized database maintained by the response program coordinator and Clinical and Medical  Affairs (CMA) personnel.
Responses to these inquiries are handled by CMA designees and follow FDA or other global  regulatory agency guidance.
Teleflex policy requires these responses be truthful, balanced, non-misleading, and  provide independent, non-promotional scientific or medical information that is responsive to the specific request.
In addition, the CMA designee is required to provide a private response, sent only to the individual requesting the  information, and must include appropriate statements and disclosures, as well as a copy of the product’s current  labeling.
Teleflex new hires and current employees receive annual training on how to avoid off-label promotion and recognize  off-label use inquiries, which training is tracked by the response program coordinator and commercial personnel.
CMA personnel also receive additional in-depth training on Teleflex’s procedure for unsolicited off-label use inquiry  responses.
Failure to maintain current training certifications or any breaches of the off-label use promotion policy may  result in disciplinary action per Teleflex Human Resources policy.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)77 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTopic SASB Code Metric Disclosure/Explanation Product Design  and Lifecycle  ManagementHC-MS-410a.1Discussion of process to assess and manage  environmental and human health considerations  associated with chemicals in products, and meet  demand for sustainable products."Product Development,” “Product Stewardship and Circularity,” “Responsible Consumption and Production.” HC-MS-410a.2Total amount of products accepted for take-back and  reused, recycled, or donated, broken down by:   (1) devices and equipment and   (2) suppliesAt Teleflex, we have many reusable products.
We have not yet established a system to quantify the extent of product  takeback.
Supply Chain  ManagementHC-MS-430a.1Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I  suppliers' facilities participating in third-party audit  programs for manufacturing and product quality.In 2021, the Teleflex Global EHS function deployed EHS audits on several selected sites through our Compliance  Assurance Program delivered by independent third-party auditors.
For information regarding our management of suppliers and audits please refer to the below websites: • https://teleflex.com/global/suppliers/ethics/Teleflex-LSAS-Policy-04-24-01-2020.pdf • https://teleflex.com/usa/en/suppliers/teleflex-supplier-expectations/ HC-MS-430a.2Description of efforts to maintain traceability within  the distribution chain.We have traceability from raw material to distribution to end customer through various processes and controls.
From  the time we purchase raw materials until they are received at our manufacturing sites, we are able to track those  materials through our logistics carrier via a carrier tracking reference and TMS (Transport Management System)  reference linked to the shipment.
From manufacturing to distribution centers and from distribution centers to end  customers the same process is used.
Once the products reach the end customer, a proof of delivery is required to  ensure receipt.
The entire process is tracked through our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system with the purchase  order number, customer or vendor information, container reference number, house of bill lading, and any other  shipping information.
HC-MS-430a.3Description of the management of risks associated  with the use of critical materials.Conflict Minerals PolicyCEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)78 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTopic SASB Code Metric Disclosure/Explanation Business EthicsHC-MS-510a.1Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal  proceedings associated with bribery or corruption.As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act filings.
Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
HC-MS-510a.2Description of code of ethics governing interactions  with health care professionals.Code of Ethics (page 7) and Teleflex Integrity Code Activity Metric HC-MS-000.A Number of units sold by product category.Anesthesia 83,956,661 Respiratory 40,687,Interventional Urology 395,396 Surgical 35,972,Interventional 4,601,382 Urology Care 91,385,OEM 140,280,315 Vascular Access 22,073,Other 774,995 Grand Total15420,127,15 This total excludes any respiratory products that were divested to Medline, Inc.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)79 Teleflex 2021 Global Impact Report United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals   (UN SDGs)CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)80 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTThe Sustainable Development Goals are the framework of our time to guide responsible  actions across all facets of society.
By mapping action to the SDGs and mapping the SDGs  to our strategy it supports the development of a more rounded and integrated approach,  increasing the impact of our sustainability strategy.
United Nations Sustainable  Development Goals (UN SDGs)CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)81 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator  Principles of Ethics  & GovernanceGoal 16 (Peace, Justice, and Strong  Institutions):  Promote peaceful and inclusive  societies for sustainable development,  provide access to justice for all and  build effective, accountable and  inclusive institutions at all levels.16.3 Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and ensure equal access to justice for all.
16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms.
Planet &  Environment Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-Being):  Ensure healthy lives and promote   well-being for all at all ages.3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination.
Goal 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation):  Ensure availability and sustainable  management of water and sanitation  for all.6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving  the proportion of untreated wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally.
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water  scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity.
Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean  Energy): Ensure access to affordable,  reliable, sustainable and modern  energy for all.7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix.
7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)82 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator  Planet &  Environment Goal 8 (Decent Work and   Economic Growth):   Promote sustained, inclusive and  sustainable economic growth, full and  productive employment and decent  work for all.8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from  environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10 Year Framework of Programmes on Sustainable Consumption and Production, with developed  countries taking the lead.
Goal 9 (Industry, Innovation,   and Infrastructure):   Build resilient infrastructure,  promote inclusive and sustainable  industrialization and foster innovation.
9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of  clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities.
Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities   and Communities):   Make cities and human settlements  inclusive, safe, resilient and  sustainable.
11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other  waste management.
Goal 12 (Responsible Consumption  and Production):   Ensure sustainable consumption and  production patterns.12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources.
12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed  international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and  the environment.
12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse.
12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into  their reporting cycle.
Goal 13 (Climate Action):   Take urgent action to combat climate  change and its impacts.13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries.
13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early  warning.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)83 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator  Planet &  Environment Goal 14 (Life Below Water):  Conserve and sustainably use the  oceans, seas and marine resources for  sustainable development.14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including marine debris and  nutrient pollution.
Goal 15 (Life on Land):   Protect, restore and promote  sustainable use of terrestrial  ecosystems, sustainably manage  forests, combat desertification, and  halt and reverse land degradation and  halt biodiversity loss.
15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in particular  forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under international agreements.
15.2 By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable management of all types of forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests and  substantially increase afforestation and reforestation globally.
15.3 By 2030, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, including land affected by desertification, drought and floods, and strive to achieve  a land degradation-neutral world.
People  Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-Being):  Ensure healthy lives and promote  well-being for all at all ages.3.7 By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for family planning, information and education, and the  integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programmes.
3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective,  quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all.
Goal 4 (Quality Education):   Ensure inclusive and equitable quality  education and promote lifelong  learning opportunities for all.4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university.
4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment,  decent jobs and entrepreneurship.
4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable,  including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations.
4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through  education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence,  global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)84 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator  People  Goal 5 (Gender Equality):   Achieve gender equality and empower  all women and girls.
5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere.
5.4 Recognize and value unpaid care and domestic work through the provision of public services, infrastructure and social protection policies and the  promotion of shared responsibility within the household and the family as nationally appropriate.
5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic  and public life.
Goal 8 (Decent Work and   Economic Growth):   Promote sustained, inclusive and  sustainable economic growth, full   and productive employment and  decent work for all.8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities,  and equal pay for work of equal value.
8.8  Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants,  and those in precarious employment.
Prosperity & Sustainable Healthcare Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-Being):  Ensure healthy lives and promote   well-being for all at all ages.3.1 By 2030, reduce the global maternal mortality ratio to less than 70 per 100,000 live births.
3.2 By 2030, end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age, with all countries aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to at least as  low as 12 per 1,000 live births and under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 live births.
3.4  By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health  and well-being.
3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents.
3.7 By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for family planning, information and education, and the  integration of reproductive health into national strategies and programmes.
3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential health-care services and access to safe, effective,  quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all.
CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)85 TELEFLEX 2021 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator  Prosperity & Sustainable Healthcare Goal 8 (Decent Work and   Economic Growth):   Promote sustained, inclusive and  sustainable economic growth, full and  productive employment and decent  work for all.
8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on   high-value added and labour-intensive sectors.
8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and  elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms.
8.8  Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants,  and those in precarious employment.
Goal 9 (Industry, Innovation,   and Infrastructure):   Build resilient infrastructure,  promote inclusive and sustainable  industrialization and foster innovation.9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors in all countries, in particular developing countries, including,  by 2030, encouraging innovation and substantially increasing the number of research and development workers per 1 million people and public and  private research and development spending.
Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and  Communities):   Make cities and human settlements  inclusive, safe, resilient and  sustainable.11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services and upgrade slums.
11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage.CEO Message Corporate Social   Responsibility   Chair MessageTeleflex at a Glance Corporate Social  ResponsibilityContinued Support for   Employees through the   COVID-19 PandemicPrinciples of Ethics  & GovernancePlanet & Environment People Prosperity &   Sustainable   HealthcareGlobal Reporting   InitiativeSustainability  Accounting  Standards Board  (SASB) IndexUnited Nations   Sustainable  Development Goals  (UN SDGs)Teleflex, and the Teleflex logo, are trademarks or registered trademarks of Teleflex Incorporated or its affiliates, in the U.S. and/or other countries.
© 2022 Teleflex Incorporated.
All rights reserved.
MCI-2022-0231