DRIVING THE SHIFT TOWARDS A  SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Global JOIN Impact Report Teleflex’s Outcomes from Acting with Purpose OUR PROGRESS • Teleflex Foundation • Embracing Compliance Culture • Product Donation • Awards and RecognitionOUR PLANET • Feature - Promoting Pollination  • Other Stories OUR FOCUS  • Feature - Embracing Sustainability Together • Other StoriesOUR PEOPLE • Feature - Volunteering in Vesnova • Other StoriesOUR PROMISE • Message from Liam Kelly • About Teleflex  • Culture and Core Values • JOIN Act with Purpose - Our Journey So Far 01 | Table of ContentsGlobal JOIN Impact Report Our Promise 02 | Our PromiseLiam Kelly Chairman, President and CEO Teleflex Incorporated 03 | Our PromiseI continue to be inspired by the dedication  of our employees to act responsibly for the  good of our communities, our environment,  and those in need.
2019 was no exception.
We maintained the momentum from the  previous year when we celebrated Teleflex’s  75th Anniversary and launched our JOIN  Act with Purpose initiative.
JOIN Act  with Purpose is Teleflex’s unique way of  approaching responsibility powered by our  employees.
They are empowered to see the  vision of their CSR activities and carry them  out in a way that is most meaningful on a  local, and often global, level.
In 2019, a team of employees from  across our organization had a unique  opportunity sponsored by Chernobyl  Children International (CCI).
They were  the first corporate group to spend a week  volunteering in a children’s orphanage in  Vesnova, Belarus where children affected  by the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster live.
Their experience truly reinforced our  mission of “improving the health and quality  of people’s lives.” I am proud of how they  represented Teleflex in their journey.
Environmental sustainability, and pollination  in particular, was the theme for the 2019  JOIN events across our sites.
To ensure a  simplistic and fun approach that everyone  could participate in, we used the theme  of ‘Planting with Purpose’ to engage and  educate our employees about the critical  role pollinators play in a sustainable planet.
Our employees embraced this theme and  held planting and other sustainability events  to support our environment as well as  educate each other on the impact we have  on the planet.
Working together, we can all  make a difference.
Our actions across all of Teleflex, including  the medical devices we produce, are  carried out in support of our Core Values and mission.
We continue to make an  impact through the work of The Teleflex  Foundation and our Humanitarian Donations  Program.
Teleflex ensures compliance with  all applicable laws and regulations and  is committed to the protection of human  health and environmental regulations.
You  can learn more about these programs and  achievements in the pages that follow.
I could not be more proud to be a part of  Teleflex and the difference we make each  day.
Thank you to all of our employees for  the tremendous efforts they made in 2019  and their ongoing commitment to build an  even brighter future and ‘JOIN IN’ to help  those around them.
Teleflex is a global provider of medical technologies designed to improve the health and quality  of people’s lives.
We apply purpose-driven innovation – a relentless pursuit of identifying unmet  clinical needs to benefit patients and healthcare providers.
Our portfolio is diverse, with solutions  in the fields of vascular and interventional access, surgical, anaesthesia, cardiac care, urology,  emergency medicine and respiratory care.
Teleflex employees worldwide are united in the  understanding that what we do every day makes a difference.
• Focus on people through professional  development and employee programs  centered on health, well-being,  inclusion and safety; • Enhance our humanitarian aid and  medical grants process to ensure a  more effective approach; • Encourage and provide volunteer  opportunities in support of our local  communities;• Seek out and implement  environmentally sound operational  practices aligned to our Zero Harm  vision; • Ensure responsibility remains a driving  factor in our corporate governance,  continuing to observe strong business  ethics grounded in morality and  compliance while mitigating risks.ABOUT TELEFLEX AT TELEFLEX WE ARE COMMITTED TO 04 | Our Promise6Our Core Values and behaviors are an integral part of our culture in Teleflex.
Our various  voluntary employee-driven groups such as our JOIN Act with Purpose, ONE Teleflex and  other initiatives enhance our employee engagement by organizing various initiatives and  events throughout the year.
This allows employees and their families the opportunity to  socialize and interact with each other outside of their typical working day.
Our Senior Leadership team are imperative in driving our culture of engagement and our  Core Values.
The fact that we have an open-door policy means that all senior individuals in  the organization are easily accessible to all employees.
This greatly assists us in driving a  culture of open communication and engagement that is in line with our Core Values.CULTURE AND CORE VALUES 05 | Our Promise JOIN - our employee-driven initiative  continues to be an invitation to join in  and act with purpose.
At Teleflex, we are  united by a common sense of purpose  that what we do every day makes a  difference.
Dedicated and committed to supporting  local charities and causes that are close  to our hearts, the stories shared by our  employees highlight how taking part in  worthwhile events also creates a greater  sense of meaning and purpose.
JOIN Act with Purpose is supported by  four pillars: Community, Humanitarian  Aid, Environment and Business with  Sustainability as the common thread that  runs through each of the pillars.
As we continue on our journey ahead, it  is exciting to see how our volunteering  efforts are continuously evolving,  demonstrating the generosity of the  human spirit, inspiring each other along  the way to make the world a better place.
Employees at Teleflex continue to  embrace sustainability throughout the  business with a growing appetite to take  action and improve our impact on the  environment.Under the JOIN umbrella, employees  have been joining in and giving back to  those who need it the most.
These acts of  kindness continue to inspire those around  us, and really demonstrate how our  employees are living our Core Values, the  foundation of how we conduct ourselves  throughout Teleflex.
JOIN reminds each and every one of us  that we each hold the power to make  a significant contribution and positive  impact in the world.JOIN ACT WITH PURPOSE  - OUR JOURNEY SO FAR 06 | Our PromiseGlobal JOIN Impact Report Our People 07 | Our PeopleVOLUNTEERING IN VESNOVA AN UNFORGETTABLE EXPERIENCE JOIN and Teleflex Academy launch an Interpersonal Development Skills program As part of Teleflex JOIN Act with  Purpose, 11 employees were given  a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity  in November 2019 sponsored by  Chernobyl Children International  (CCI).
They travelled from all over the  world to spend a week volunteering  in a children’s orphanage in Vesnova,  Belarus where children affected by the  1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster live.
Working in the medical device industry  we feel a sense of satisfaction every day  that the work we do is improving lives.
The trip proved to be an altogether  unique and more direct way of touching  the lives of those most in need.
After a series of vaccinations,  psychometric assessments, vetting, and  questionnaires, the team assembled in the Amsterdam airport on November  18, 2019.
Although many of them had  never met, an immediate bond and  chemistry formed within the team.
While they had seen images of the  orphanage and had been told of the  conditions that affected the children,  this was going to be a completely new  experience.
They all shared the tension  of not knowing what to expect.
The typical day began at 7:00 AM.
The team helped feed the children in  two of the units where the children  were severely disabled and unable to  feed themselves.
After this they spent  time either helping bathe / change the  children or just spent time with them in  the dayroom.
The team also visited children in the  other units.
Some of the less disabled  children partake in workshops that  include painting, woodwork, arts  and crafts, knitting, and more.
The  remainder of the day consisted of  feeding lunch and dinner to the  children as well as visiting the  children’s sensory room.
Reflective sessions would soon  become an important part of the trip.
As emotions ran high among the  participants given the experiences they  had, these sessions allowed everybody  to share their highs and lows from each  day and recalibrate their emotions for  the following day.
There were many unforgettable  moments on the trip and every possible  emotion experienced.
The team felt  hope in seeing the homes CCI has built  outside of the orphanage that gives the  children the potential for a real future  and live independently, and pride in  being the first corporate group to be  involved in such an initiative.
CCI is now working to help the 3rd  generation of people suffering from  the effects of the Chernobyl nuclear  disaster.
08 | Our People JOIN VOLUNTEERING WEEK  Teleflex Morrisville - Making a difference where it counts! Team Teleflex Morrisville volunteered for a second  year running as part of JOIN Volunteering Week  2019.
Thanks to the collective efforts of our 231  volunteers, our employees devoted their time  between some worthwhile charities including  Ronald McDonald House, Raleigh Food Bank,  Goodwill Community Farm, Woodland Terrace  Senior Living Community and Habitat for Humanity.
At Ronald McDonald House, our team of volunteers  cooked and served food to families daily, which  included meal planning, cooking and serving the  meals and making sure to clean up afterwards.
Team Teleflex Morrisville also spent time at the  Raleigh Food Bank.
The team worked incredibly  hard to assemble meal boxes for the elderly where  their efforts made a tremendous impact as they  sorted and packaged produce, frozen meat and  non-perishable food into manageable meal boxes  suitable for the elderly people in their community.Goodwill Community Farm donates their local  produce to local charities and those in need.
As part  of JOIN Volunteering week, our volunteers joined  together to help de-weed their crops, harvest sweet  potatoes and plant collards.
Other Teleflex volunteers visited Woodland Terrace  Senior Living Community where they assisted with  the residents in bingo, took part in board games and  fun dancing exercises.
They also worked outside  cleaning the court yard, building outdoor flower  boxes and painting the outdoor patio furniture.
Habitat for Humanity of Wake County welcomed  our volunteers who spent time building roofs,  landscaping and painting.
The organization greatly  appreciated the efforts from our Team Teleflex who  gifted their time to such a worthy cause.
09 | Our PeopleEMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Casa Ronald McDonald  Team Teleflex Iberia had the opportunity to volunteer at Casa Ronald McDonald.
Since 1997 in Spain,  the Ronald McDonald Children’s Foundation has overseen the building and maintenance of homes  located near paediatric referral hospitals also known as the Ronald McDonald Houses.
They provide a  ‘home away from home’ for families with children who are receiving care in hospital.
The Teleflex team  held a baking demonstration class with the children and their families, to give them an enjoyable activity  and the opportunity to make some new memories.
Feed My Starving Children Feed My Starving Children (FMSC) believes hope starts with food.
As a non-profit, FMSC is dedicated to  seeing every child whole in body and spirit.
FMSC works with food distribution partners that stay with  communities for the long haul, empowering them to move from relief to development.
Team Teleflex Arlington Heights volunteered with Feed My Starving Children in Schaumburg, Illinois  where they took time out to label and package hand picked nutritious meals for children who are in  need.
Well done to our volunteers who packed 397 boxes in two hours - a total of 85,752 meals which  will feed 295 children for one full year! 10 | Our PeopleGOING THE EXTRA MILE Teleflex Athlone CCI 5k Run To mark the International Chernobyl Disaster Remembrance Day, as part of JOIN Act with Purpose,  Team Teleflex Athlone joined together to take part in a 5km fun run/walk to raise funds for  Chernobyl Children International (CCI) charity, which gives support and hope to children living in  the aftermath of the 1986 Chernobyl Nuclear disaster.
An impressive €1050 was raised for this very  worthy cause and we were delighted to see how together we really do make a difference by getting  involved with the causes that are near and dear to our hearts.
Teleflex Jaffrey Animal Donation Drive To celebrate World Animal Day, Team Teleflex Jaffrey hosted a month-long Animal Donation Drive  to benefit the Monadnock Humane Society (MHS), a local non-profit organization that serves  forty four local communities as an adoption shelter and food pantry for low income pet owners.
Services include a spay/neuter clinic, animal cruelty advocation, pet therapy program center, and  a temporary care center for pets with owners who are hospitalized, homeless, or in a domestic  violence situation.
Our volunteers from Team Jaffrey delivered the donated items to MHS and  enjoyed some play-time with a few of the animals that are looking for forever homes.
11 | Our PeopleGlobal JOIN Impact Report Our Planet 12 | Our Planet14PROMOTING POLLINATION  IT’S IN OUR NATURE Our pollinator population are declining at an alarming rate.
Pollinators are facing extinction through hunger, loss of habitat  and the effects of climate change.
It is becoming much clearer  that we must act now to improve our conservational efforts and  take the necessary steps to ensure we protect our eco-system.
According to some scientists estimates, birds, bats, bees, butterflies and all other small  mammals who pollinate our plants are responsible for providing one out of every three bites of  food we eat.
Favourite foods such as fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds and berries are all varieties  of food that are vital to our health and contribute to our well-being which we would we not have  without the work of our pollinators.
It is important that we play our part by creating and maintaining safe habitats so that our  pollinators can thrive.
We can take immediate action by planting native seeds and flowers that  are bee-friendly and pollinator-friendly, ensuring they have enough nectar to feed on.
A simple  flowerbox is a great alternative to a garden for attracting pollinators to our neighbourhoods.
13 | Our Planet15ABOUT POLLINATION  DID YOU KNOW.
• Pollination is an essential ecological function.
• Pollinators help to procreate many trees, shrubs and flowering plants.
• Not all flowers are the right food for our pollinator friends, did you know that  bidan and wildflower create perfect nectar.
• We can’t live without pollinators and the plants that they pollinate.
• Over 80% of the world’s flowering plants require a pollinator to reproduce.
• Animals that assist in their reproduction as pollinators include bats, butterflies,  moths, flies, birds, beetles, ants and bees.
• Without pollinators, the human race and all of Earth’s terrestrial   eco-systems would not survive.
14 | Our PlanetPLANTING WITH PURPOSE Arlington Heights Volunteer at SmartFarm To celebrate National Honey Bee Day Team Teleflex Arlington Heights volunteered at SmartFarm where  the volunteers spent time weeding the tomato and onion beds, running lines to hold the plants upright,  harvesting peppers and restoring the tomato plants that had blown over during a bad storm.
The JOIN team helped harvest fresh produce for local families who are less fortunate.
The SmartFarm is  partnering with a local junior high to set up an area where those in need can pick up the fresh produce.
Smart Farm’s facilities run entirely through donations, fundraisers and volunteer hours.
SmartFarm grows and donates close to eight tons (or 16,000-lbs) of produce each year, teaches  workshops for kids and adults, and spreads the word about the importance of growing fresh, local food.
THE SMARTFARM PROMISE IS TO CULTIVATE A HEALTHY, ECO-FRIENDLY COMMUNITY BY:    • OFFERING ADULTS AND CHILDREN LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES IN SUSTAINABLE GARDENING • PROMOTING THE BENEFITS OF SUSTAINABLE GARDENING • DONATING FRESH PRODUCE TO SUPPORT OUR NEIGHBOURS IN NEED 15 | Our PlanetFRUITS OF POLLINATION Teleflex Wayne Valley Forge National Park  Team Teleflex Wayne visited Valley Forge National Park, where they volunteered to help with the  upkeep of the park.
The team cleared out invasive plants, made room to plant new species and  constructed a fence around the area to protect from wildlife.
Teleflex Iberia Ecocolmena  Ecocolmena is an association that dedicates itself to developing social innovation projects that  protect bees and other pollinators.
Seven members of Team Teleflex Iberia travelled to Escopete,  a village of Guadalajara, where they collaborated with Ecocolmena.
While there, they planted  trees to help the ecosystem, and absorbed lots of information about how important bees are to our  environment, and learning ways they can protect bees and pollinators.
Teleflex Athlone Breakfast Morning Team Teleflex Athlone held a ‘pollination day’ to honour the mighty bee.
A breakfast morning was  held where Irish honey, Irish granola, Irish yoghurt and local fruits were provided for all employees  to enjoy.
Each employee also received a gift of seeds also known as ‘bee bombs’ containing   18 species of wildflower that are indigenous to Ireland which are vital to the survival of our bees.
Employees were encouraged to plant these in their gardens at home to help preserve bees and  pollinators in their local areas.
16 | Our Planet18  BRINGING BACK THE BEES Join the Bee Protection Squad with Team Korea Team Teleflex Korea held a JOIN activity, where our volunteers focused on the importance  of pollination.
An educational workshop provided key learnings around the importance  of pollination and how small changes can really enhance the protection of bees and the  environment.
Following this, the team worked together to make a small bee garden with  flowering plants to provide a habitat for pollinators.
Finally, the team got to experience  honey harvesting.
Their efforts will make a positive difference to pollinators and their  environment.
This inventive event will help the team do their bit to protect pollinators.
Teleflex Arlington Heights World Bee Day  To celebrate World Bee Day, Team Teleflex Arlington Heights came together and built  pollinator homes.
A pollinator home is a structure which accommodates solitary-nesting  native bees by providing cavities in natural materials for them to live in and to protect  them.
All volunteers brought their creations home where they placed them in an area for  pollinators to take advantage of them.
These homes will help protect bees in the local area,  which in turn will have a great impact on the local environment.
17 | Our PlanetPOLLINATION AT WORK Teleflex Shanghai Drive Pollination Pillar Team Teleflex Shanghai held a JOIN Act with Purpose Pollination Pillar event.
The employees  brought their children along to the event where educational workshops were held.
All 34 participants  learned about garbage classification, plogging, planting, pollination and recycling.
Finally, the  participants created their own DIY Recycled bags, and planted their own plants to take home with  them.
Overall the event was both enjoyable and educational.
This is invaluable information that will  help Teleflex employees make small changes in their lives to protect the environment.
18 | Our PlanetGlobal JOIN Impact Report Our Focus 19 | Our FocusEMBRACING SUSTAINABILITY TOGETHER 20 | Our FocusTeleflex is committed to sustainable  development, environmental protection  and the health and safety of our  employees and our customers.
At  Teleflex, we understand that our  environment is complex as well as  delicate and we constantly strive to  ensure we act in an environmentally  sustainable manner.
Compliance with all applicable laws,  regulations and other standards is just one  part of this commitment.
We are further  committed to the protection of human  health and the prevention of pollution,  and we strive to identify and eliminate  or minimse negative impacts on the  environment associated with our facilities,  activities, services and products.
During 2019, sustainability  remained a key focus throughout  the business.
Employees actively  engaged in a variety of initiatives  such as recycling, beach cleans and  planting with purpose, all exciting  stories that are making an impact  whilst instilling a great sense of  pride throughout Teleflex.
TELEFLEX PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP MDR and our commitment to compliance and sustainability Product Stewardship is an environmental management strategy where responsibility is taken by  whoever designs, produces, sells, or uses a product to minimise the product’s environmental  impact throughout all stages of the products’ life cycle.
Product Stewardship is about ensuring  there are programs in-place throughout the entire product cycle to ensure the availability of  sustainable and environmentally compliant medical devices for Teleflex customers.
Product Stewardship is embedded in Teleflex processes and activities, it is an extension of the  JOIN initiative and backs up the JOIN initiative.
Teleflex is committed to substituting materials  designated as hazardous with safer alternatives.
Our policies and procedures back up our  Stewardship and compliance efforts.
“An important aspect of product stewardship is accountability for knowing and  understanding all the chemicals and materials we use in all our products.
This not only  assures our patients and their caregivers that medical devices placed in their bodies  are safe but also that our manufacturing employees have a safe work place and that  our manufacturing sites are operated in a manner that is safe for the planet.”  ANDRE WEINSTOCK - SENIOR MANAGER GLOBAL ANALYTICS.
21 | Our Focus ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 22 | Our Focus2019 saw Teleflex make real progress on our global  reform of its Environmental, Health and Safety  (EHS) function across our manufacturing operations  Global Supply Chain.
Our ‘Zero Harm’ strategy  helps sites implement a common management  systems infrastructure aligned to ISO 14001  (for Environmental Management Systems) and  ISO 45001 (for Occupational Safety and Health  Management Systems).
We continued to improve  and implement new EHS Standards in 2019, with  more planned for 2020.
Our ‘Zero Harm’ strategy provides us with clear  decision-making criteria and a shared vision for all  Teleflex employees.
It demonstrates our dedication  to conducting our business in ways that sustain the  safety, health, and well-being of people, and the  environment.
Key environmental indicators within this strategy  include Electricity, Natural Gas and Water Usage,  Waste Sent to Landfill and Treatment and Waste  Sent to Recycling/Reused.
Key Occupational Safety and Health indicators  include all EHS Incidents and the internationally  benchmarked DART Rate.
Via our ‘Zero Harm’ strategy and supporting  programs, we’ve maintained a low level of overall  injury severity rate per 100 employees with our  2019 DART rate of 0.94 comparing favourably to  the Industry.
We have set continual improvement  targets to further decrease our total injury and  DART rate per 100 employees per year in 2020.
Taking responsibility for our people is high on our  agenda.
In 2019, Teleflex invested in upgrading  manufacturing, food and recreation areas at  selected manufacturing sites to improve the  wellbeing of our people.
To keep improving health  and safety commitments we will continue to make  additional investments in 2020.Committed to our shared vision:  Zero Harm to People and Environment23 | Our FocusGOING GREEN Taking steps to reduce our impact on the environment At Teleflex we are focused on making more environmentally friendly choices and  pursuing practices that can lead to more ecologically responsible decisions.
An example of this is at our International Headquarters in Athlone, Ireland.
Over the last  two years, we have reduced the amount of printing by 33% and completely removed the  use of almost 50,000 paper cups and over 30,000 plastic lids annually.
Another example of this is operation of water treatment capability at our manufacturing  plant in Kamunting, Malaysia.
Our environmentally friendly focus in 2019 was further  demonstrated through approval to invest in solutions to convert sunlight into energy at  selected manufacturing sites over the next couple of years.
24 | Our FocusREDUCING PACKAGING FOR   NEW UROLIFT 2 SYSTEMThe Teleflex Interventional Urology Business Unit is dedicated to developing innovative,  minimally invasive and clinically effective devices that address unmet needs in the  field of urology.
As part of our commitment to be the leader in BPH care, we invest in  holistically considered design enhancements that aim to improve our environmental  footprint.
Our dedication to careful stewardship of environmental resources has produced  upcoming improvements to the UroLift® System that will reduce the amount of device  and associated packaging that is disposed following the procedure.
The cartridge-based UroLift® 2 System uses compact Implant Cartridges with a Delivery  Handle that can deliver multiple implants during a single procedure.
This directly results  in significantly less biohazardous material, which requires careful disposal.
Furthermore,  the volume of packaging materials consumed during an average case is expected to  be reduced by 48%, with corresponding reductions in the PETG vacuform plastic and  paperboard used in the packaging of 38% and 23%, respectively.
These improvements also lessen the environmental impacts of transporting our products  to customers, significantly reducing the carbon footprint for each case.
1.
The UroLift® 2 System is not commercially available.CONSERVING OUR ENVIRONMENT Teleflex Iberia Beach Clean Portugal  Team Teleflex Iberia travelled to the Praia das Pedras do Corgo beach on the Atlantic Coast of Portugal.
The team cleaned up plastic debris and rubbish that had accumulated on the beach.
Four bags of plastic  were collected on the day by our group of eco volunteers.
Teleflex Wayne Elmwood Park Zoo Over two days, two volunteer groups from Team Teleflex Wayne spent the morning volunteering at  Elmwood Park Zoo in Norristown, Pennsylvania.
The team performed a variety of tasks to help rejuvenate  the zoo, such as cleaning, weeding and refurbishing.
This event shows how by working together as a team  we can make a great impact to help conserve our environment.
Teleflex Beijing Pinggu School Visit Volunteers from Team Teleflex Beijing visited the Beijing Pinggu Special Education School.
During their  visit the team worked together with the children to create and decorate DIY recycled bags, while learning  about the importance of recycling and the significant impact it can have on the environment.
This event  has many great benefits, the employees gave back to their local community while also learning ways to  protect the environment and having fun at the same time.
25 | Our FocusGlobal JOIN Impact Report Our Progress 26 | Our ProgressTELEFLEX FOUNDATION 40 Years of Philantrophy The Teleflex Foundation was formed on May 9, 1979 to create an impact on the quality of  life in Teleflex communities.
We achieve this goal by supporting qualified nonprofits that  have the commitment of our employees.
The Foundation encourages the philanthropic spirit and active engagement of Teleflex  employees through the following programs:  • Make a Difference Cash Grant • Matching Gifts • Team Volunteer Program • Americares   These programs align employee-driven social responsibility with our company mission.
Organizations Received donations  through Matching Gifts and  Team Volunteering Programs 27 | Our ProgressTELEFLEX FOUNDATION 2019 Make a Difference (MAD) Grant Winners Each year, we give a number of cash grants to healthcare charities that are close to the hearts of our  employees as demonstrated through their ongoing involvement.
This year, 37 employees received a  pleasant surprise from the Teleflex Foundation.
As finalists in the 2019 MAD Grant Program, they received  a portion of the $130,000 allocated by Teleflex for donation.
With cash grants ranging from US$1,000 to  US$10,000, this program is a true example of how Teleflex employees extend the company’s mission of  improving the health and quality of people’s lives.
Also, in the spirit of JOIN Act with Purpose, Teleflex  recognizes the great volunteer work our employees do in their surrounding communities.50 Charity NominationsCharities awarded MAD Grants $130,MAD Grants  awarded in Employee Participation 50 Nominations 34 Nominations from employees highly engaged in their charities 6 Nominations made from employees outside of the United States Non-Profit Landscape 37 Healthcare-related causes supported 35 Nominated charities with global impact criteria 17 Past MAD Grant Recipients 28 | Our Progress30    TELEFLEX FOUNDATION Matching Gifts Program  The Teleflex Foundation Matching Gifts Program encourages charitable giving by Teleflex employees  and demonstrates the company’s interest in supporting community investment opportunities.
The Foundation will match gifts of $50 and above, for an annual total of $2,000 per donor, to most  organizations qualified for exemptions under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
In 2019, 101 employees donated to 103 charities, totalling $78,615 in donations.
Team Volunteer Program The Teleflex Foundation Team Volunteer Program supports the causes that our employees truly care  about.
It encourages employees to join together as a team to benefit local non-profit organizations by  participating in activities like marathons, special events, and one-time fundraising initiatives.
Teams consisting of five or more employees who participate in an event to raise money for eligible  501(c)(3) organizations can apply for a TVP grant of $1,000 from the Foundation.
In 2019, 30 employees participated resulting in $4,000 in donations to four charities.
131 Charities impacted by  Matching Gifts and Team  Volunteer ProgramsEmployees participated  in Matching Gifts and   Team Volunteer Programs $82,Total Matching Gifts  and Team Volunteer  Donations 29 | Our ProgressTELEFLEX FOUNDATION Teleflex Foundation continues long-standing support of Americares Disaster relief is a critical global need.
To aid  people where disaster strikes with the most  beneficial impact, the Foundation joins forces with  other organizations by working through one non- profit.
Being able to provide global aid in a timely  way was an important element of the Teleflex  Foundation selecting Americares as our disaster  relief partner.
Americares was founded 40 years ago as a health- focused relief and development organization.
Today, emergency response remains a cornerstone  of their work.
Annually they respond to an average  of 30 natural disasters and humanitarian crises -  both large and small - combining rapid responses  with long-term recovery and disaster risk reduction  efforts.
Over the decades, they have responded to  the world’s largest disasters, natural and man- made, providing $17 billion in aid to 164 countries.
As an Americares Emergency Response Partner,  the Teleflex Foundation donations help Americares maintain a constant state of disaster readiness  and respond swiftly and effectively to disasters  around the globe.
Teleflex’s year-round support  allows Americares to effectively carry out the full  cycle of emergency programs, including disaster  preparedness, response and recovery, and ensures  those affected by poverty and disaster receive the  relief needed to build a pathway to better health  and recovery.
As an Americares Emergency Response partner,  the Teleflex Foundation received timely updates  on current disaster response efforts as well as  opportunities to engage with Americares experts  and leadership.
From quantitative reports to first- hand accounts, we are provided with information  that highlights the great impact Teleflex’s support  is making for people in crisis.
30 | Our ProgressDRIVING A CULTURE OF COMPLIANCE:  INTEGRITY IN ALL WE DO Setting the Tone: Corporate Governance  Strong corporate governance helps us earn and keep the trust of key stakeholders and remain focused  on our mission of improving the health and quality of people’s lives.
Teleflex’s Corporate Compliance  Program is run by our Chief Compliance Officer and overseen by our Business Ethics and Compliance  Committee (BECC), which is made up of members of Executive Management.
The Chief Compliance  Officer reports directly to our CEO and the Chairperson of the Audit Committee to ensure the  Compliance Department operates independently.
Our Compliance Department is organized regionally  with resources allocated based on risk.
The Teleflex Promise: Our Global Code of Ethics The Teleflex Code of Ethics sets forth the standards and behaviors we believe are necessary for  conducting business with integrity, in accordance with high ethical and legal standards, and with  respect for each other and all those with whom we do business.
The Code of Ethics is available in   17 languages and applies to all Teleflex directors, employees and third parties with whom we  do business (Third-Party Representatives).
In 2019, we updated our Code of Ethics to reflect  enhancements made to our Corporate Compliance Program.
31 | Our Progress 33Making Compliance Accessible:  Policies and Procedures In a world and industry of rapid change, it’s increasingly  important that we provide our employees and Third- Party Representatives with clear guidance on how to  handle ethical challenges.
It is also imperative that we  understand and respect the obligations of Government  Officials to their respective governments and Health Care  Professionals (which includes Health Care Organizations)  worldwide to act in the best interest of – and make  independent decisions regarding – the health care of their  patients.
Our Anticorruption Policy, which was updated in 2019,  provides guidance on how to recognize and avoid  corruption risks and specifically prohibits facilitation  payments.
Teleflex also abides by various industry codes  of conduct, including those published by AdvaMed  (US and China), MedTech Europe, APACMed, SAMED,  ABIMED, and the MTAA.
In 2019, we adopted a new Corporate Compliance  Program Charter and Integrity Code.
In connection with  the Integrity Code, we implemented regional Integrity  Policies and Procedures to provide clear and easy to follow  guidelines on topics such as business meals, educational grants, health care professional consultant engagement,  market research and product samples.
All of our policies  and procedures are readily available to our employees on  the Compliance section of our internal website.
Additionally, in 2019 we implemented a Third-Party  Integrity Code, which is available in 9 languages, to  ensure our Third-Party Representatives adhere to our high  standards of conduct.
Our Third-Party Representatives are also able to request  copies of our Integrity Policies and Procedures, available  in multiple languages, to assist them with implementing  appropriate internal processes to ensure compliance with  our Third-Party Integrity Code and Code of Ethics.
We also  implemented a third-party management platform in 2019,  allowing us to centralize and standardize due diligence of  our Third-Party Representatives.
We maintain a Health Care Provider Payment Tracking  Policy to help ensure proper disclosure of payments made  to Health Care Professionals in accordance with applicable  law.
Reporting requirements vary by country and by the  nature of the transactions.
In the United States, we report  payments at the state level where necessary and on the  U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Open Payments  website.
In Europe, we report in several countries as well as pursuant to the MedTech Europe Code.
In all our other  regions we report payments at the country or state level  where required by law.
Reinforcing the Message: Training Teleflex maintains a robust training program for  employees and certain Third-Party Representatives.
Training is undertaken online through interactive modules  as well as in-person at our annual kick-off meetings and  throughout the year as needed.
We also send out updates  and reminders to our employees via email and our internal  newsletter.
Each year Teleflex employees are required to train on  and certify compliance with the Code of Ethics.
We also  provide periodic training on our Integrity Policies and  Procedures and other relevant topics such as sexual  harassment and data protection.
We require annual anti-corruption training for our  third-party distributors and agents.
This process is now  centralized through the third-party management platform  we launched in 2019.
We supplement on-line training with  in-person training as part of our distributor compliance  reviews and as otherwise needed.
32 | Our Progress IN IT TOGETHER:   OVERSIGHT Our Compliance Department implements and oversees policies and programs related to our legal, compliance  and ethical obligations, but everyone plays a role in driving a strong ethical culture at Teleflex.
Annual Teleflex Enterprise Risk Assessment  Each year we select key employees to participate in our Teleflex Enterprise Risk Assessment.
In 2019, 60  participants were asked to identify and rank the top risks in their respective roles and/or areas of expertise  and describe existing or planned mitigation efforts.
We also conducted interviews with 40 of the participants  to further discuss the identified risks and undertake a survey to assess the culture of Compliance at Teleflex.
Each year the risks identified are compiled and categorized and a report is prepared.
The top risks and  associated mitigation efforts are then regularly monitored by Executive Management.
Auditing and Monitoring Each year the Compliance Department develops a risk based global auditing and monitoring plan, which is  approved by the BECC.
This plan includes, among other things, employee expense audits, ride along’s with  front line sales personnel, in-person distributor compliance reviews, third-party distributor audits and on-site  monitoring of congresses, tradeshows and Teleflex product training and educational events.
Activities result  in reports and timelines are established for completing remediation activities.
These auditing and monitoring  activities give our Compliance Department a chance to get to know people across our organization and  understand their business goals and the challenges faced in meeting them.
Due to the roll out of our new Integrity Policies and Procedures, our 2019 auditing and monitoring plan  focused on activities in Q3 and Q4.
33 | Our Progress Reporting and Investigations  We require our employees and Third-Party Representatives to report concerns about potential  misconduct or violations of law or our policies.
There are multiple channels available for  reporting such concerns or seeking guidance, including an individual’s manager, Human  Resources, Legal, Compliance, and the Teleflex Ethics Line.
The Ethics Line is available online  and via phone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week in multiple languages.
Reports can be made  anonymously via the Ethics Line, but to encourage people to freely voice their concerns,  Teleflex maintains a strict policy of non-retaliation for reports made in good faith.
All reports of potential misconduct are promptly processed and thoroughly investigated.
If our investigations confirm misconduct or wrongdoing, corrective actions are taken in  accordance with our policy on Coordinating Disciplinary and Compliance Standards, which  was implemented in 2019.
Corrective action may include additional training, verbal or  written warnings, changes in job responsibilities, and in serious cases, dismissal.
We track all  corrective actions taken in an effort to maintain a consistent approach globally as well as to  attempt to identify patterns of behavior.
This information may be used to focus our training  programs or guide our auditing and monitoring efforts.
34 | Our Progress 36PRODUCT DONATION  2019 MEDICAL EDUCATION GRANTS 2019 Humanitarian Donations During 2019, Teleflex received Humanitarian Donation requests, from organizations around the globe.
Teleflex donated product  from AEM, Vascular, Surgical, Interventional and Respiratory.
While we have no way to know how many hundreds, or even  thousands, of people were impacted by these donations, we often receive follow up anecdotes and thanks from the impacted  organizations and patients.
The Americas The America’s Medical Education  Grant Panel reviewed over 181 Medical  Education Grants (MEG) requests  from approximately 124 different  organizations.
In 2019, Teleflex Americas’ BUs provided  monetary, in-kind support, technician,  simulator and cadaveric donations valued  at almost $1 million USD.EMEA The EMEA Medical Education Grant  Panel reviewed over 55 MEG requests  from 45 different organizations in 13  countries.
In 2019, EMEA provided  support in 9 different countries with  products from Vascular, Anesthesia,  Interventional, Surgical and Urology/ Homecare product areas with a value of  approximately $125,000 USD.APAC The APAC Medical Education Grant  Panel reviewed requests from across  the region in 2019, supporting multiple  therapeutic areas around our Vascular,  Anesthesia, Emergency Medicine,  and Interventional product portfolios.
In total, approximately $76,500 in  monetary, in-kind support, technician,  simulator and cadaveric donations were  provided.
35 | Our Progress PROUD OF WHAT WE ARE ACHIEVING Teleflex Ranked Best Place   to Work Third Year in a Row  by MedReps Teleflex is proud to be named winner of the 9th  Annual Best Places to Work 2020 for the Large  Category Best Medical Device Companies and  ranked second in the Overall Category, covering  Best Medical Device Companies, Best Pharma  Companies and Best Biotech Companies.
This is the  third year in a row Teleflex has been honored with  this prestigious recognition.Employee and medical  community insight In October 2019, MedReps surveyed the medical  sales community to find out where they love to work  and what companies set themselves apart as a most  sought-after employer.
More than 1,200 respondents  took the survey.
Feedback revealed, “Medical sales  employees, both inside and outside of the Teleflex  community, acknowledge the company’s positive  culture and ability to empower employees to  positively impact the world around them.”  “Teleflex is a great company made up of amazing people united by common vision, purpose,  and values.
A key component of our culture is our core values and the fact that people are at  the center of everything we do.
This hasn’t been a one-year change; this has been a multi-year  cultural transformation that people can see and feel.”   MIKE CUMMINGS - VICE PRESIDENT HUMAN RESOURCES - THE AMERICAS 36 | Our ProgressNSAI - EXCELLENCE The focus of Excellence Through People is to encourage  organizations to look at their people as a key source of competitive  advantage.
The certification means that Teleflex is recognised by the National  Standards Authority in Ireland, as having internal activities and  procedures that help to support, retain, engage and develop our  people.
This will be a great help to us in promoting Teleflex as an  employer of choice and is formal recognition of our commitment  to people and putting them at the centre of our activities, hence  demonstrating and supporting our core values.
The assessment form consisted of 6 sections with a total of 42  detailed questions, challenging the organisations approach to the  following items: • Business planning and continuous improvement • Effective communication and people engagement • Leadership and people management • Planning of learning and development • Evaluation of learning and development • Human resource systems and employee wellbeing Once our submission is reviewed by an independent assessor  appointed by the NSAI, the 2-day onsite audit commences.
The onsite audit consists of the HR team meeting with the auditor,  answering a series of questions based on the application form  submitted and providing evidence to support the application  as requested by the auditor.
The auditor then randomly selects  employees, to conduct confidential focus groups with.
The purpose of these focus groups is to obtain feedback directly  from employees and ascertain if the activities, policies, procedures  and initiatives submitted in the application form are practiced.
37 | Our Progress 39Teleflex, the Teleflex logo, are trademarks or registered trademarks of Teleflex Incorporated or its affiliates, in the U.S. and/or other countries.
© 2020 Teleflex Incorporated.
All rights reserved.
MCI-2019-0377-EN