2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT 2020 Global Impact Report2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT • History •  Living our V alues •  How we ar e Organized •  Financial Highlights •  Our Pr oducts •  Str ategic M&A •  New Pr oduct  Development •  Our Supply Chain•  Our Appr oach to CSR •  Stakeholder  Engagement •  About this Report •  Information Concerning F orward-Looking  Statements   •  Non-GAAP Financial Measur es•  Corpor ate Governance •  Driving a Cultur e of  Compliance: Integrity  in All We Do   •  Annual T eleflex  Enterprise Risk Assessment •  Sales & Marketing Pr actices •  IT Security & Privacy•  Envir onmental Health  & Safety (EHS):  Our Zero Harm Vision for the Environment •  Pr oduct Stewardship  from Concept to Commercialization•   Supporting our P eople  through COVID-•  T alent Management &  Development •  Benefits •  F amily Support •  T uition Assistance •  Diversity , Equity &  Inclusion •  Employee Recognition •  EHS: Our Zer o Harm  Vision for our People •  Continued Pursuit of Excellence in our Global F acilities •  T eleflex Products:  Innovation, Safety & Quality from Concept to Commercialization•   T eleflex Product  Training and Education: Engage, Educate, Align •  Medical Education Gr ants •  Clinical Resear ch  Grants •  Clinical Resear ch •  Philanthr opy at Teleflex •  Community Engagement •  Labour & Supplier Standar ds05 03 14 18 31 45 26Table of Contents Click number to visit relevant section CEO   MessageCompanyOverviewCorporate Social Responsibility at TeleflexPillar I: Principles of Ethics &  GovernancePillar II: Planet  & EnvironmentPillar III: People & Human RightsPillar IV: Prosperity & Sustainable  Procurement2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Liam Kelly Chairman, President, and CEOTeleflex is a company that thrives on  shared values with people at the center of everything we do.
We live each day by our Core Values and our purpose “to improve the health and quality of people’s lives.” Our more than 14,000 employees are united in the understanding that what we do every day makes a difference.
Our focus on people and commitment  to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has never been more critical than during the COVID-19 pandemic.
We quickly mobilized our Global and Local Crisis Management Teams to ensure employee health and safety.
As featured in our Frontline Stories  series, some members of our clinical and sales teams returned to the front lines of clinical practice during the pandemic.
We also leveraged our Humanitarian Product Donation Program to provide support to front line workers and continued to serve as an Americares Emergency Response Partner to aid their global crisis response efforts.In 2020, Teleflex’s CSR Steering Committee established a comprehensive strategic approach  to CSR at Teleflex bringing together the work that has been ongoing throughout our organization for many years.
We plan to expand Teleflex’s CSR Program through the development of a 5-year Road Map, setting meaningful and measurable goals to advance the progress, transparency, and disclosure of the program.
Our CSR Program is focused on our  commitment to working with integrity, minimizing our impact on the world around us, empowering and supporting our employees, and promoting economic prosperity.
Principles of Ethics & Governance  Teleflex is committed to ensuring we  act with integrity in all our business practices and interactions and remaining compliant with all applicable laws and regulations.
Our actions are guided each day by the Teleflex Code of Ethics.
Planet & Environment  As an organization, Teleflex is guided  by our Zero Harm Vision and a commitment to sustainable business practices.
Our dedication in this space is demonstrated by our efforts to reduce excess materials in our product packaging as well as installation of solar panels in our Mexico and Malaysia manufacturing facilities to help reduce our carbon footprint.
In addition, we are setting goals to reduce our purchased energy and waste sent to landfills.
CEO Message 2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Liam Kelly Chairman, President, and CEOPeople & Human Rights  Dedication to our Core Values, which  place people at the center of everything we do, takes on many forms.
This includes Teleflex’s drive to provide high quality, innovative medical devices through both internal R&D and acquisition, a strong emphasis on talent management and development, and our commitment to Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) through the work of our Global and Regional DEI Councils.
DEI education of our workforce is underway, and programs are being designed for employees to get involved at the regional and local levels.
We also have employee-driven initiatives to give employees the opportunity to connect with each other, including One Teleflex and our Employee Resource Groups.
Prosperity & Sustainable Procurement In an effort to support the expansion  of access to healthcare, Teleflex focuses on groundbreaking clinical research as well as the critical role we play in educating clinicians on the safe and effective use of our products.
Through our Humanitarian Donation Program, the philanthropic efforts of the Teleflex Foundation, and our JOIN Act with Purpose community engagement initiatives, Teleflex seeks to give back wherever possible.
Teleflex is also dedicated to maintaining robust standards both for Teleflex and the suppliers with whom we work to support and expand economic prosperity.Forward Focus I am proud of all the work our  employees are doing to advance our CSR journey at Teleflex.
Guided by our Core Values and culture, we are committed to acting responsibly to support our employees, customers, patients, shareholders, and our communities around the world.
Teleflex has made significant advances, and I look forward to watching our CSR Program continue to evolve in the years to come.
CEO Message Company Overview that2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT History Headquartered in Wayne, PA, Teleflex is a public company traded  on the New York Stock Exchange that was founded in 1943 as a manufacturer of precision mechanical push/pull controls for military aircraft.
From this original single market, single product orientation, we expanded and evolved through entries into new businesses, development of new products, introduction of products into new geographic or end-markets and acquisitions and dispositions of businesses.
Throughout our history, we have continually focused on providing innovative, technology-driven, specialty-engineered products that help our customers meet their business requirements.
Beginning in 2007, we significantly changed the composition of our  portfolio of businesses, expanding our presence in the medical device industry, while divesting our other businesses.
In 2011, we became exclusively a medical device company.
Since then, we have continued to expand our business through a combination of internal research and development, external partnerships and strategic acquisitions.
Teleflex at a Glance Major manufacturing operations in the  Czech Republic, Germany, Malaysia, Mexico, and the United StatesCompany Overview Our Major Brands ®2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Living our Values At Teleflex, our Core Values define our company, shaping  our corporate culture, guiding our business practices, and directing the way we interact with our stakeholders.
Our Core Values revolve entirely around people – from our patients and healthcare professionals, to our employees and shareholders, to our suppliers and distributors, to the countless individuals who make up the communities we serve around the world.
Make it Fun Building TrustPeople People are at the center of  everything we do, and as a result, they are at the heart of our values.
Our commitment to people encompasses being mindful of others and prioritizing respect in every interaction.
Teleflex is a highly entrepreneurial  workplace, and much of our company's growth has come from this trait.
We continuously encourage our people to find new and innovative ways to demonstrate their entrepreneurial spirit and add value to their jobs.We are committed to helping  our employees to find  fulfillment and enjoyment in  their jobs by achieving new  things, taking pride in their  work, and taking time out to  celebrate their successes.
Establishing trust is an important  and continuous process that has  many different levels and meanings.
Trust defines our relationships as  individuals, teams, and as a company.
Our employees trust us to give them  the tools that they need to succeed,  we trust them to be accountable,  and they trust one another to  create a positive work  environment.
How we are Organized Teleflex has four business segments – the Americas (North  America and Latin America), EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa), APAC (Asia Pacific), and OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer and Development Services).
Each of our three geographic segments provides a comprehensive portfolio of medical technology products used by hospitals and healthcare providers.
However, certain of our products are more heavily concentrated within certain segments.
For example, most of our interventional urology products are sold by our Americas segment and most of our urology drainage products are sold by our EMEA segment.Net Revenues by Re porting  Segment Americas 58% 23% 10% 9% Net Revenues by End MarketNet Revenues (2.2%) VarianceResearch and  Development 5.2% VarianceEurope,Middle East and Africa Asia Paciﬁc OEM Hospitals/Healthcare Providers 9%Medical Device Manufacturers 3%Home Care 88%17 18 19 20$ 2,146,$ 2,448,$ 2,595,$ 2,537,Adjusted Earnings Per Share (4.3%) Variance17 18 19 20$ 8.$ 9.$11.$ 10.17 18 19 20$ 426,$ 435,$437,$ 437,Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 0% Variance17 18 19 20$ 84,$ 106,$ 113,$ 119,2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Financial Highlights From Continuing Operations (dollars in  millions, except per share data).
A table reconciling adjusted earnings per share to the most directly comparable GAAP measure can be found at the end of this Report.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Our Products Our portfolio is diverse, with solutions in  the fields of vascular access, anesthesia, interventional cardiology and radiology, surgical, interventional urology, respiratory, 2  and urology.
Our products are designed to enhance clinical benefits, improve patient and provider safety, and reduce total procedural costs.
We primarily design, develop, manufacture, and supply single-use medical devices used by hospitals and healthcare providers for common diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in critical care and surgical applications.
Vascular Access  Our vascular access product category includes  devices that facilitate a variety of critical care therapies and other applications with a focus on helping reduce vascular-related complications.
These products primarily consist of our Arrow ® branded  catheters and related devices including catheter positioning systems in addition to our intraosseous, or in the bone, access systems.
Our catheters are used in a wide range of procedures, including the administration of intravenous therapies, the measurement of blood pressure and the withdrawal of blood samples through a single puncture site.
Many of our catheters provide antimicrobial and antithrombogenic protection technology that have been shown to reduce the risk of catheter related bloodstream infections and microbial colonization and thrombus accumulation on catheter surfaces.
Our intraosseous access systems are designed for the delivery of medications and fluids when intravenous access is difficult to obtain in emergent, urgent, or medically necessary cases.
Our products offer a method for vascular access that can be administered quickly and effectively in the hospital and pre-hospital environments and include the Arrow ® EZ-IO®  Intraosseous Vascular Access System and Arrow®  FAST1 Sternal Intraosseous Infusion System.
Respiratory Our respiratory products are used in a variety of care settings include oxygen therapy products, aerosol therapy products, spirometry products and ventilation management products.
2Anesthesia Our anesthesia product category is comprised of airway and pain management product lines that support hospital, emergency medicine and military channels.
Our airway management products and related devices are designed to enable use of standard and advanced anesthesia techniques in both pre-hospital emergency and hospital settings.
Our pain management product line includes catheters and disposable pain pumps for regional anesthesia, designed to improve patients’ post-operative pain experience.
Arrowg+ard Blue Advance® PICC  Our proprietary coating technologies can be applied  to a range of vascular access products, including peripherally inserted central catheters (PICC’s), and midlines, helping to provide broad-spectrum antimicrobial and antithrombogenic catheter protection.
We are leveraging our innovation strength to expand the use of these technologies to new applications in markets around the world.
Arrow® EZ-IO®   Intraosseous Vascular Access System  During 2020, we received an expanded indication for our EZ-IO ® Intraosseous Vascular Access  System, allowing the device to be used for an extended timeframe of up to 48 hours when alternative intravenous access is not available.
This expansion is a prime example of our ongoing efforts to expand and improve our portfolio based on clinician feedback.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Interventional Our interventional product category includes  devices that facilitate a variety of applications to diagnose and deliver treatment via the vascular system of the body.
These products primarily consist of a variety of coronary catheters, structural heart therapies, peripheral intervention products and cardiac assist products that are used by interventional cardiologists, interventional radiologists, and vascular surgeons.
Interventional Urology Our interventional urology product category includes the UroLift ® System, a minimally  invasive technology for treating lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign prostatic hyperplasia, or BPH.
The UroLift ® System  involves the placement of permanent implants, typically through a transurethral outpatient procedure, that hold the prostate lobes apart to relieve compression on the urethra without cutting, heating, or removing prostate tissue.Surgical Our surgical product category consists of single-use and reusable products designed to provide surgeons with devices for use in a variety of surgical procedures.
These products primarily consist of metal and polymer ligation clips, fascial closure surgical systems used in laparoscopic surgical procedures, percutaneous surgical systems, and other surgical instruments.
Urology Our urology product category provides bladder management for patients in the hospital and individuals in the home care markets.
The product portfolio consists principally of a wide range of catheters (including Foley, intermittent, external, and suprapubic), urine collectors, catheterization accessories and products for operative endourology.
OEM Division Our OEM division designs, manufactures, and supplies devices and instruments for other medical device manufacturers, providing custom-engineered extrusions, diagnostic and interventional catheters, balloons and balloon catheters, sheath/dilator sets (introducers) and kits, sutures, performance fibers and bioresorbable resins and fibers.MANTA® Vascular Closure Device  During 2020, we completed full market release  of our MANTA® Vascular Closure Device, the  first commercially available biomechanical vascular closure device specifically designed for large bore femoral arterial access site closure.
Engineered to achieve fast, simple deployment with rapid hemostasis, the MANTA ® Device  addresses the challenges of large bore closure with single, easy-to-use device.
The UroLift® System  The UroLift® System represents a  significant breakthrough in the area of minimally invasive benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) care.
During 2020, we initiated a national marketing campaign to drive consumer awareness, and we unveiled the UroLift ® Advanced Tissue  Control (ATC)TM System, which may enable urologists to treat challenging BPH cases more easily.
We also initiated the roll out of the UroLift ® 2 System, and  we remain on track for a full commercial launch of this next-generation technology by year-end 2021.
New Product Development Teleflex drives to advance the quality of patient and caregivers lives  through innovation in products, processes, and partnerships.
We introduced new products in 2020 targeted at making improvements to our intra-aortic balloon pumps (IABP) that support treatments for heart failure and structural heart failure and launched the Arrow ®  ErgoPack® Complete CVC Insertion System, a critical tool in the fight  against central line-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI).
During 2020, we also completed the roll-out of our MANTA®  Vascular Closure Device, the first commercially available  biomechanical vascular closure device designed specifically for large bore femoral arterial site closure.
We also continued to collaborate with the U.S. Army and the FDA to seek a biologics license approval for our freeze-dried plasma product.
We launched the UroLift ®  Advanced Tissue Control (ATC)™ System, and the next generation of UroLift ®, the UroLift® 2 System.
Strategic M&A In 2020, we continued to execute on our strategy of creating value through strategic acquisitions.
In the first quarter of 2020, we completed the acquisition of IWG High  Performance Conductors, Inc., a leader in medical tubing and wire components to expand and diversify our OEM division’s already extensive portfolio of  in-house capabilities.
The business is made up of two main segments, Minimally Invasive Medical and High Performance Conductors.
Minimally Invasive Medical focuses on insulated wire and micro-diameter tubing components for medical devices including intra-cardiac mapping catheters, cerebral protection systems for TAVR, and RF nerve ablation for pain management.
High Performance Conductors is a leading fabricator of specialty fine and ultra-fine gauge wire for patient monitoring devices, radiology components, ultrasound equipment, commercial aerospace, and solar.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, we completed the acquisition of Z-Medica, LLC an  industry-leading manufacturer of hemostatic products.
Z-Medica’s hemostatic technologies are helping reinvent hemorrhage control, with cost-effective, efficient bleeding control solutions being adopted by markets worldwide.
Z-Medica offers three main brands, QuikClot ®,  Combat Gauze® and QuikClot Control+®, which utilize a  proprietary technology consisting of gauze impregnated with kaolin.
The technology activates and accelerates the body’s natural clotting ability.
QuikClot Control+ is the first hemostatic dressing indicated for temporary control of Class III or Class IV bleeding in the internal organ space.
Z-Medica’s products currently focus on the trauma surgery, EMS, military, emergency department, and interventional segments, with opportunities to expand into additional indications over time.2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT   Intra-Aortic Balloon Pumps (IABP) Arrow® ErgoPack® Complete SystemDistribution and Logistics Our finished goods are delivered to our Teleflex  operated distribution centers and third-party logistics provider (3PL) partners around the world.
We have 25 distribution centers and 3PLs worldwide, including key regional distribution hubs located in Olive Branch, Mississippi, Mexico City, Mexico, Rodgau, Germany, and Singapore.
From our distribution centers our products reach our customers by way of freight forwarders over land, by air, and by sea.
Commercial Organization  and Customers We market and sell our products through our  direct sales force and third-party resellers to customers within the following end-markets worldwide: hospitals and healthcare providers, medical device manufacturers and home care.
Our sales efforts are supported by our marketing teams and other shared services.Global Procurement Teleflex’s Global Procurement organization is committed to creating mutually beneficial supply base relationships to assist in providing our customers high quality, safe and effective products.
In order to achieve this commitment, we rely on a broad network of suppliers for the materials and services that are vital to our business.
Teleflex purchases raw materials, components, and finished goods from approximately 1,300 suppliers annually.
Our Global Procurement and Global Commodity teams  play an important role in ensuring stability in our supply chain and effective vendor management.
Although we have several sole source suppliers that play an important role in our supply chain, through positive Supplier Relationship Management activities we maintain trusted partnerships in an effort to minimize risk to the supply chain.
Global Procurement also works with R&D in the early stages of new product development to help identify and select new suppliers to reduce our reliance on sole source suppliers moving forward.
Manufacturing We manufacture our products at approximately 35 manufacturing sites around the world, with major manufacturing operations in the Czech Republic, Germany, Malaysia, Mexico, and the United States (“U.S.”).
Our own manufacturing is supplemented by purchases of finished goods from over 200 contract manufacturers.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Our Supply Chain2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Customer Experience Culture and People Guided by our Core Values,  we foster a culture that encourages and rewards customer-centric decision making.
Through a series of training programs, we have challenged Teleflex colleagues around the world to think about what they can do to “deliver exceptional everyday” and have empowered them to deliver.Radical Simple Throughout the customer journey with Teleflex we are looking at ways to differentiate based on simplicity and ease.
This includes making investments to expand ordering options that allow customers to interact with Teleflex 24/7.Listening Programs Our focus at Teleflex is to have a deep understanding of customer needs so that we can deliver a comprehensive total experience with a suite of services that ensure customer success.
To aid in this effort, we have deployed listening programs through the business, allowing us to listen, act and communicate in a way that drives sustainable change.
To evaluate the effectiveness of our Customer Experience efforts, we are measuring progress through routine relationship surveys.
Between 2017 and 2021, in the U.S., we have seen our net promoter score (NPS), a customer’s likelihood to recommend Teleflex to a business colleague or contact, increase 147%.
This result is driven by increases in customer satisfaction and a significant improvement in scores related to customer effort.At Teleflex, one of our strategic  imperatives is a focus on Customer Experience.
Our goal is to delight customers with every interaction, deliver value beyond products, and increase the lifetime value of a customer.
In order to achieve the highest customer satisfaction and loyalty in the industry, we have executed on a strategy that is centered around the following elements:  Corporate Social Responsibility at Teleflex2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility at Teleflex At Teleflex, we believe that Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) is integral to living our Core Values and meeting our strategic and commercial objectives.
CSR ensures Teleflex continues to maintain compliance with global laws and regulations as well as our ethical obligations.
A commitment to CSR builds trust with our key stakeholders, including employees, patients, customers and investors, improves our ability to manage risk, reduces costs, and benefits the communities where we operate as we continue to advance our purpose “to improve the health and quality of people’s lives.”  We believe people at all levels at Teleflex should play an active role in creating and maintaining an effective CSR Program.
In 2020, our CSR Steering Committee was formed to oversee and consolidate Teleflex’s CSR efforts into a comprehensive CSR Program.
The CSR Steering Committee is chaired by our Chief Compliance Officer and includes members of senior executive management from key functional areas across Teleflex.
The CSR Steering Committee provides annual reports to the Nomination and Governance Committee of the Teleflex Board of Directors.The first priority of the CSR Steering Committee was to establish Teleflex’s CSR Pillars aligned with the World Economic Forum’s September 2020 White Paper on Stakeholder Capitalism 3 and the United  Nations Sustainable Development Goals.We are now developing a 5-year Road Map for expanding Teleflex’s CSR Program, putting us on a path toward setting meaningful and measurable goals and enhancing transparency and disclosure relating to our CSR Program.
The following chart shows how our CSR activities and the disclosures in this report align with each Pillar   and which UN Sustainable Development Goals we believe we are addressing through those activities:• Ensuring r esponsibility  remains a driving factor in  our corporate governance, continuing to observe strong business ethics grounded in morality and compliance while mitigating risks;  •  F ocusing on people through  professional development and employee programs centered on health, well-being, inclusion and safety; •  Encour aging and providing  volunteer opportunities in support of our local communities; •  Seeking out and implementing envir onmentally sound  operational practices aligned to our Zero Harm Vision; and •  Enhancing our humanitarian aid and medical gr ants  process to ensure a more effective approach.At Teleflex we are  committed to:Our Approach  to CSR • Envir onmental Health & Safety•  Pr oduct Stewardship •  Material Reduction •  Responsible Consumption & Pr oduction •  W aste Management•  Supporting our W orkforce •  T alent Management & Benefits •  Diversity , Equity & Inclusion •  Employee Recognition •  Employee Health & Safety •  Resear ch, Development & Innovation •  Pr oduct Safety & Quality•  Medical Education •  Clinical Resear ch •  Philanthr opy •  Community Engagement •  Labor Standar ds & Supplier  RequirementsPillar II: Planet &   EnvironmentPillar III: People  & Human RightsPillar IV: Prosperity &  Sustainable Procurement • Corpor ate Governance •  Compliance, Integrity & Ethics •  Sales & Marketing Pr actices •  IT Security & Privacy Pillar I: Principles of   Ethics & GovernanceStakeholder Engagement Our journey on our 5-year CSR road map started in 2020  with the development of our Stakeholder Engagement Plan.
We began by defining our key stakeholders and putting together a concrete strategy for seeking and receiving feedback from those Stakeholders to ensure we understand their expectations and interests.
The manner and method of those touchpoints will differ depending on the stakeholder and will include everything from reviewing published reports and policy statements to seeking direct feedback from employees and customers.
Parts of our Stakeholder Engagement Plan include methodically capturing and leveraging those engagements and opportunities for meaningful inputs already happening everyday around Teleflex.
We intend to execute our Stakeholder Engagement Plan  throughout 2021 in order to conduct a thorough CSR materiality assessment in early 2022.
About this Report In this report, we refer to our efforts to meet our obligations as a company to our Stakeholders as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).
As used in this report, CSR is meant to encompass our aspirations as a company as well as the practical ways in which we seek to address evolving Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) standards in order to identify and quantify the measures of our sustainability and societal impact.
We expect this report will evolve over time as we enhance our abilities to track, measure, and report data meaningful to these standards.
This report has been prepared with guidance from  internationally recognized reporting guidelines including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) industry-specific standards though this report is not intended to meet those requirements.
Unless otherwise noted, the data in this report covers  the period from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 and includes information from our owned and operated facilities around the world.
In addition, this report includes certain information pertaining to our Respiratory business, a significant portion of which we have divested to Medline Industries, Inc.
While we have internal processes in place to ensure that  our reporting is accurate and as robust as possible, the data in this report has not been externally assured.
We have previously reported on certain elements of CSR efforts at Teleflex in our JOIN Impact Reports.
We value feedback from our stakeholders.
You can  contact us regarding this report or our CSR Program generally via email at ESG@teleflex.com.2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Key Stakeholders: • Investors •  Employees •  P atient & Advocacy Groups •  Health Car e Professionals & Health  Care Organizations •  Industry Associations & NGOs •  GPOs & IDNs  •  Regulatory & Certified Bodies •  Governments & P olicymakers  •  Wholesalers & Distributors •  Suppliers  •  Local Communities2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT All statements made in this report, other  than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements.
The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “guidance,” “potential,” “continue,” “project,” “forecast,” “confident,” “prospects” and similar expressions typically are used to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are based on the then-current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates and forecasts about our business and the industry and markets in which we operate.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those factors described or incorporated in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We expressly disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements, except as otherwise specifically stated by us or as required by law or regulation.
This report refers to certain non-GAAP financial measures, including, but not limited to adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Management uses these financial measures to assess Teleflex’s financial performance, make operating decisions, allocate financial resources, provide guidance on possible future results and assist in its evaluation of period-to-period and peer comparisons.
The non-GAAP measures may be useful because they provide insight into management’s assessment of our business and provide supplemental information pertinent to a comparison of period-to-period results of our ongoing operations.
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for, and should be read together with, the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
Moreover, our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Tables reconciling these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are contained within this report.
Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Non-GAAP Financial MeasuresPillar I: Principles of Ethics & Governance that2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT18Board of Directors At Teleflex, we are committed to maintaining high corporate governance standards and  meeting the requirements of all federal and state laws and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Our Corporate Governance Principles address the composition and responsibilities of the board and its committees, director selection, independence, conflicts of interest, compensation and equity ownership and succession planning.
Our Board of Directors has nine (9) members, eight (8) of whom are independent.
In 2020,  Benson Smith retired from the Board of Directors, and Liam Kelly, our President and CEO, succeeded Mr. Smith as Chairman of the Board.
Our board members come from a wide variety of backgrounds and industries that brings a  diversity of skillsets and thought essential to understanding and addressing the needs of our stakeholders.
As of the end of 2020, 22% of board members were women, and the average age of our board members was 64.
Senior Management & Compensation As of the end of 2020, 19% of members of senior management were women, and the average age of our senior management team was 51.
Our executive compensation program is designed to promote the achievement of specific annual and long-term goals by our executive management team and to align our executives’ interests with those of our stockholders.
You can read more about our executive compensation program in our annual proxy statement.2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Corporate Governance Strong corporate governance helps  us earn and keep the trust of key stakeholders and remain focused on  our mission of improving the health  and quality of people’s lives.
Our Board of Directors has three standing  committees led by independent directors: •  The Nominating & Governance     Committee •  The Compensation Committee •  The Audit Committee Charters outlining each Committee’s  mission and the duties and r equired  qualifications of its members are available on our website.
Pillar I: Principles of Ethics & GovernanceParticipating in Public Policy Teleflex operates in a heavily regulated industry and believes it is important to be able to express  its views when it deems appropriate on public policy issues or proposals to policymakers and other stakeholders in a transparent manner.
These efforts include monitoring and analyzing public policy proposals and, from time to time, taking a position on or advocating regarding policies that directly affect Teleflex’s business or impact public health or access to healthcare.
Any public policy involvement on behalf of Teleflex reflects the interests of Teleflex as an organization and not the interests of any individual director, officer, or employee.
In 2020, Teleflex did not make contributions to political candidates, parties or committees, in support  or opposition to ballot initiatives or to other groups such as governors associations, political action committees or other section 527 entities, and as of the date of this report, Teleflex does not have any employee-funded political action committees.
In 2020, Teleflex did not engage in any direct lobbying activities, and as of the date of this report, Teleflex does not have any employees dedicated to public policy or government affairs matters.
Please see our Statement on Engagement on Public Policy Issues for more information.
Industry Groups and Trade Associations The primary way in which Teleflex engages in the political process is through involvement as a member of industry associations and trade groups.
Teleflex works with these groups on a variety of issues of importance to Teleflex and the medical device industry.
These groups can help the industry reach consensus on policy issues and be effective with issue advocacy.
With Teleflex representatives on the boards and committees of industry associations and trade groups, Teleflex can voice questions or concerns it may have about policy or related activities.
Teleflex may not always agree fully with the views of these associations or its individual member companies.
As such, Teleflex reserves the right to remove itself from related association or industry group activities when it is appropriate to do so.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Industry Groups   & Trade Associations6  • Medical Device Manufactur ers Association •  AdvaMed •  IBEC T rade Association •  MedT ech Europe •  SNITEM •  BVMed •  Confindustria Dispositvi Medici2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT At Teleflex, working with integrity has always been central to our  corporate values.
We strive to create a culture that emphasizes responsibility and trust at all levels of our organization.
Teleflex’s Corporate Compliance Program is run by our Chief Compliance Officer and overseen by our Business Ethics and Compliance Committee (BECC), which is made up of members of Executive Management.
The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to our CEO and the Chairperson of the Audit Committee to ensure the Compliance Department operates independently.
Our Compliance Department is organized regionally with resources  allocated based on risk.
Our Compliance Department implements and oversees policies and programs related to our legal, compliance and ethical obligations, but everyone plays a role in driving a strong ethical culture at Teleflex.
The Teleflex Promise:   Our Global Code of Ethics The Teleflex Code of Ethics sets forth the standards and behaviors we  believe are necessary for conducting business with integrity, in accordance with high ethical and legal standards, and with respect for each other and all those with whom we do business.
The Code of Ethics is available in 17 languages and applies to all Teleflex employees and certain third parties with whom we do business, including resellers, sales agents, and vendors (Third-Party Representatives).
Driving a Culture   of Compliance:   Integrity in All We Do2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT In a world and industry of rapid  change, it’s increasingly important that we provide our employees and Third-Party Representatives clear guidance on how to handle ethical challenges.
It is also imperative that we understand and respect the obligations of Government Officials to their respective governments and Health Care Professionals (which includes Health Care Organizations) worldwide to act in the best interest of – and make independent decisions regarding – the health care of their patients.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy provides  guidance on how to recognize and avoid corruption risks and specifically prohibits facilitation payments.
Teleflex also abides by various industry codes of conduct, including those published by AdvaMed (US and China), MedTech Europe, APACMed, SAMED, ABIMED, and the MTAA.
Together with our Code of Ethics  and Anti-Corruption Policy, our Corporate Compliance Program Charter and Integrity Code provide a framework for our global approach to compliance.
Our regional and country specific Integrity Policies and Procedures (IPPs) provide clear and easy to follow guidelines on topics such as business meals, educational grants, health care professional consultant engagement, market research and product samples.
All of our policies and procedures referenced above are readily available to our employees on the Compliance section of our internal website.
In 2020, we updated our IPPs to  align with changes published to the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with U.S. Health Care Professionals.
In addition, in response to the changes to our business as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, in June 2020, we launched and trained employees on new Virtual Interactions with Healthcare Professionals IPPs globally.
To ensure our Third-Party  Representatives adhere to our high standards of conduct, we maintain a Third-Party Integrity Code, available in nine (9) languages, and make available our Integrity Policies and Procedures to assist Third-Party Representatives with implementing their own appropriate internal processes to ensure compliance with our Third-Party Integrity Code and Code of Ethics.
We utilize a third-party management platform to centralize and standardize due diligence of certain of our Third-Party Representatives.
We also maintain a Health Care  Provider Payment Tracking Policy to help ensure proper disclosure of payments made to Health Care Professionals in accordance with applicable law.
Reporting requirements vary by country and by the nature of the transactions.
In the U.S., we report payments at the state level where necessary and on the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Open Payments website.
In Europe, we report in several countries as well as pursuant to the MedTech Europe Code.
In all our other regions we report payments at the country or state level where required by law.
Policies and Procedures: Providing a Framework for Success2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex maintains a robust training  program for employees and certain Third-Party Representatives.
Training is presented in a variety of formats including live interactive group training, one on one training, interactive online modules, and videos.
We supplement our training with updates and reminders to our employees via email and our internal newsletter.
Each year all Teleflex employees are  required to complete training on and certify compliance with the Code of Ethics via robust interactive online modules.
We also provide live trainings at all our regional or country kick-off meetings and periodic training on our Integrity Policies and Procedures and other relevant topics such as identifying and preventing financial crimes, sexual harassment, careful communication, and data protection.
In creating our training plan for the  year, we consider data from our auditing and monitoring activities and investigations, frequently asked questions, enforcement trends, government, and regulatory guidance as well as important developments in our industry.
Where possible we try to focus our content to our audience to help support our business colleagues with information that is meaningful to their day-to-day work.
We solicit feedback on our training programs to help us determine how our messages are being received and whether they are being understood, and we track training records internally to ensure we have a complete picture of our training efforts each year.
We require annual anti-corruption  training for our third-party distributors and agents.
This process is centralized through our third-party management platform.
We supplement on-line training with live training as part of our distributor compliance reviews and as otherwise needed.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Training and Communication:   Supporting and Reinforcing our Message Corporate Compliance   & Ethics Week  In November 2020, we participated for  the first time in Corporate Compliance & Ethics Week.
We provided daily content to our colleagues all around the world underscoring the importance and benefits of a robust Compliance Program and a strong Compliance Culture, touching on key recent developments in guidance and enforcement in our industry and introducing a newly developed Compliance FAQ document.
We supplemented this content each day with interactive games and quizzes in an attempt to help our colleagues get to know their Compliance resources and stay engaged with the content.Auditing and  Monitoring: Understanding how our Policies and Training are Working in Practice   Each year the Compliance Department develops a risk based global auditing and monitoring plan, which is approved by the BECC.
This plan includes, among other things, employee expense audits, compliance ride alongs with front line sales personnel, live distributor compliance reviews, third-party distributor audits, and on-site monitoring of congresses, tradeshows and Teleflex product training and educational events.
Once the activities are complete, the Compliance Department issues reports summarizing the finds and establishes timelines for completing any necessary remediation activities.
These auditing and monitoring activities give our Compliance Department a chance to get to know people across our organization and understand their business goals and the challenges faced in meeting them.
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted our auditing and monitoring plan, which became more heavily weighted than in previous years in favor of reviews that could be completed remotely and included monitoring virtual events.
Although some of the activities we typically conduct in person were cancelled, distributor compliance reviews continued to be successfully conducted virtually and our compliance team attended and monitored virtual congresses, product trainings and medical education events.
In addition, as a direct result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we added regional product allocation audits to ensure our allocation priorities were being adhered to, focusing on key products being used to help treat patients suffering with COVID-19.
Reporting and  Investigations: Encouraging a  Speak-Up Culture    Our employees and Third-Party Representatives are required to report concerns about potential misconduct and violations of law and our policies.
There are multiple channels available for reporting such concerns or seeking guidance, including an individual’s manager, our Human Resources, Legal, and Compliance departments, and the Teleflex Ethics Line.
The Ethics Line is available online and via phone  24 hours a day, 7 days a week in multiple languages.
Reports can be made anonymously via the Ethics Line, but to encourage people to freely voice their concerns, Teleflex maintains a strict policy of non-retaliation for reports made in good faith.
All reports of potential misconduct  are promptly processed and thoroughly investigated.
If our investigations confirm misconduct or wrongdoing, corrective actions are taken in accordance with our policy on Coordinating Disciplinary and Compliance Standards.
Corrective action may include additional training, verbal or written warnings, changes in job responsibilities, and in serious cases, dismissal.
We attempt to track corrective actions and try to maintain a consistent approach to discipline globally.
Corrective action information may be used to focus our training programs or guide our auditing and monitoring efforts.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT25 2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Annual Teleflex Enterprise   Risk AssessmentSales and Marketing Practices Each year we select key employees to participate in our global Teleflex  Enterprise Risk Assessment.
The risks identified are compiled and categorized and a report is prepared.
The report is presented to Executive Management and the Board of Directors, and the top risks and associated mitigation efforts are then monitored by Executive Management throughout the year.
In 2020, 97 participants were asked to identify and rank the top risks  in their respective roles and/or areas of expertise and describe existing or planned mitigation efforts.
The participant group was significantly expanded over 2019 (60 participants) as a result of asking participants in 2019 to identify additional members of their teams who might have important insights to share into the risks faced by their organizations.
We then conducted interviews with approximately half of those participants to further discuss the identified risks and to get feedback on our Compliance Program.Teleflex believes that the features, benefits, quality, and value of our products speak for themselves.
We have policies and procedures in place to ensure our promotional materials and communications are balanced, within the scope of clearance or approval, adequately substantiated by appropriate data and compliant with all applicable legal and regulatory standards.
Cross functional teams work together to review, revise, and approve our marketing materials and practices before they are available to the field to ensure we are meeting the high standards we have set for ourselves.
IT Security & Privacy  Teleflex takes information security and data privacy seriously.
We have an established information security function focused on ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Teleflex information assets.
We have implemented safeguards including an email gateway system and enhanced authentication controls to protect Teleflex end-users from malicious attacks as well as a suite of controls to prevent, detect and mitigate the risks associated with cyber threats.
Additionally, we have developed and deployed an information security training and awareness program to better prepare Teleflex end-users to identify, respond to and avoid cyber threats.
In recent years, our policies and procedures have been enhanced in response  to evolving global requirements relative to data privacy.
Enhancements include revised breach response procedures to promptly notify data subjects in the event of a compromise and data privacy training to Teleflex individuals responsible for collecting and processing personal data.
Pillar II: Planet & Environment2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Environmental Health & Safety (EHS):   Our Zero Harm Vision for the Environment Teleflex’s EHS vision is that Teleflex cause Zero  Harm to people and the environment.
In line with that vision, we seek to identify and wherever possible prevent, eliminate or minimize harm to the environment associated with our facilities, activities, services and products.
Our Global EHS Policy establishes the parameters  within which we work to achieve this vision and sets expectations for all Teleflex personnel globally.
Our Zero Harm Vision is built on three pillars:  1) Environment; 2) Safety; and 3) Health and Wellness.
For more on our Zero Harm Vision as it relates to employee safety and health and wellness, see below “EHS: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People” on page 40.In focusing on the environmental pillar of our Zero Harm Vision, we work to act collectively and as individuals to reduce our environmental impact.
We regularly identify and implement simple ways to reduce energy consumption and water consumption such as turning off equipment when not in use, installing low energy lighting, and emphasizing better task and activity planning.
In addition, our Global Procurement team works  to facilitate making choices which promote Zero Harm to the environment.
Teleflex also utilizes EHS Management Systems to help maintain compliance with relevant laws and regulations by assessing and continually improving our practices, policies, and procedures.
At Teleflex, we understand that  our environment is both complex and delicate, and we continually work to help ensure we act in an environmentally sustainable manner.
Managing and limiting the environmental impact of our business is a priority for Teleflex.
Planet & Environment As a medical device manufacturer, Teleflex is  responsible for our products from design to production to sale and post-market, and we seek to minimize our products’ environmental impact throughout all stages of their life cycle.
This concept of Product Stewardship is embedded in our policies and processes, and Teleflex has programs in-place to help us meet this commitment while ensuring the safety and efficacy of our medical devices.
Across our product portfolios, we have  implemented various initiatives aimed at improving our carbon footprint through improving process efficiency, reducing product and component tourism (products moving between locations more than once during manufacture or packaging), and material reduction.
Material Reduction and  Substitution: Reducing Consumption and Waste and Using Safer Alternatives  Teleflex has focused on several different ways to  reduce materials to minimize our environmental impact, including through reducing overall material use and waste as well as limiting the use of hazardous materials.
Reducing the amount of material used to package  our products means lowering our consumption and reducing waste.
Key initiatives have included changing from high impact polystyrene trays to a flexible form fill seal for over 100 product codes, moving to pre-filled syringe selection integrated packaging for over 500 product codes, reducing the corrugate size used in breathing circuits, and reducing the size of polybags used to package certain products, which has eliminated over 15,000 pounds of plastic per year.
The introduction of the UroLift ® UL2 System is expected to result in  meaningful waste reduction and annual packaging material savings, in part due to the fact that the UL2 System allows healthcare professionals to re-use one handle during a procedure for all the required UL2 Cartridges rather than using a separate handle for each cartridge.
Across several key portfolios we have examined  product designs in an effort to remove excess material used to manufacture products, eliminate unnecessary components, and remove extra items packed with products, such as printed instructions for use where possible, to reduce waste.
These changes have resulted in a reduction in Teleflex’s use of resin for product production by over 5 million pounds per year.
Teleflex is committed to substituting materials with  safer alternatives wherever feasible.
In connection with initiatives to ensure compliance with the EU Medical Device Regulation (“MDR”), we are in the process of replacing certain materials in over 1,100 SKUs, which is projected to be complete by May 2024.
The removal of these substances aligns with regulatory guidance in place to improve patient safety and quality of medical devices.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Product Stewardship from   Concept to Commercialization   UroLift® System 29 2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT 3 Year Global Operations Goals 2021–2023:   10% 10%reduction in our waste  sent to landfills reduction in purchased energyGlobal Operations  Our manufacturing operations are Teleflex’s single largest source  of environmental impact, but also present our greatest opportunity for making improvements and making a difference.
In 2020, we began deploying software across our Global  Operations and OEM sites that gives us the ability to track our consumption of water, gas, and electricity as well as our output of hazardous and non-hazardous waste to landfill, treatment, and recycling.
This software will also, in the future, give us the capability to track our carbon footprint and will facilitate better data analytics, reporting, and disclosure.
As we work on gathering data to be able to set meaningful and measurable long-term goals to reduce our environmental impact, in 2020, we challenged ourselves to try to reduce our waste sent to landfills and purchased energy by at least ten percent (10%) over the next three years, 2021–2023.
Waste Management Teleflex has adopted industry leading best practices to address our hazardous and non-hazardous waste management.
We are constantly seeking to improve our waste management processes and become more efficient in our use of materials to reduce our overall waste generation.
We are also committed to good recycling practices.
In order to meet our goal of reducing our waste to landfill by at  least ten percent (10%) in the next three years, we are challenging ourselves to identify waste currently being sent to landfill that can be diverted to treatment or recycling facilities as well as leveraging efforts of our Global Procurement team to minimize consumption and looking to implement enterprise excellence and cost improvement projects to reduce waste.Energy Consumption: Our Solar Panel Project   One key mechanism by which we intend to meet our goal of reducing our purchased energy by at least ten percent (10%) over the next three years is through the completion and utilization of several solar panel installation projects at our main manufacturing locations in Malaysia and Mexico.
The solar panel project at our Kulim, Malaysia facility was the first to become fully operational on June 1, 2020.
The Kulim solar panel system has capacity to facilitate a reduction of consumed energy by over thirteen percent (13%) annually at that facility, which is projected to help us reduce our CO 2 emissions by approximately 500 metric  tons annually.7   In February 2021, we completed a solar panel project at our Kamunting, Malaysia facility.
The Kamunting solar panel system has capacity to facilitate a reduction of consumed energy by over twelve percent (12%) annually at that  facility, which is projected to help us reduce our CO 2 emissions by approximately 2,000 metric tons  annually.In addition to the solar panel projects in Malaysia, we commissioned a solar panel project at our Chihuahua, Mexico facility that has been fully operational since December 2020.
The Chihuahua solar panel system has capacity to facilitate a reduction of consumed energy by over four percent (4%) annually at that facility, which is projected to help us reduce our CO 2 emissions by approximately  500 metric tons annually.We also commissioned a solar panel project at our Tecate, Mexico facility in 2020, which started energy generation in February 2021 and became fully functional in April 2021.
The Tecate solar panel system has capacity to facilitate a reduction of consumed energy by over ten percent (10%) annually at that facility, which is projected to help us reduce our CO 2 emissions by  approximately 500 metric tons annually.7    Unlike our other projects, the solar panels at the Tecate facility have been installed in the parking lot, providing the added benefit of creating new covered car ports for our employees.
We are considering plans for solar panel projects at other sites globally, which will be able to provide additional electricity production as they come online in the future.
We will continue to look for other ways to reduce  our electricity consumption and adopt other clean energy solutions and innovations.
Tecate, Mexico Kamunting, Malaysia Kamunting, Malaysia 2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTthat2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTPillar III: People & Human Rights2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Supporting our People through COVID-During the COVID-19 pandemic, Teleflex provided support for employees globally, both for those who  were required to adjust to working remotely as well as those front-line workers on the manufacturing lines and in the distribution centers everyday keeping our operations running and our products reaching our customers and their patients.
Crisis Management Teams (CMT) were set up at the global and regional levels to ensure coordination and sharing of information and ideas.
CMT’s were also established at each Teleflex location to address specific local issues, protocols, and employee communications.
With employee safety as our primary focus, special considerations have been implemented   in facilities where our front-line workers continue to work through the pandemic, including: •  Pr oviding masks and disinfection products in all facilities; •  Re-designing pr oduction areas, installing plexi-glass partitions and adding break areas where feasible  to allow for proper social distancing; •  Restructuring shift schedules to pr ovide separation of workers between shifts; •  Adding janitorial staff and cleaning cycles to r outinely disinfect of high touch areas; and •  Implementing temper ature scanners at employee entrances.People & Human Rights From patients who benefit from  the use of our products every day, to healthcare professionals treating those patients to the thousands of employees working in our manufacturing facilities, our offices and out in the field all around the globe, people are at the center of all we do at Teleflex.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT We put additional measures in  place to help our employees navigate the pandemic.
Our benefits group in the U.S. worked hard to ensure our employees had increased flexibility and support.
Site CMTs and human resources (HR) in the U.S. partnered with doctors and nurses from our Clinical and Medical Affairs team to triage employees with symptoms to help ensure quarantines were implemented appropriately and in accordance with CDC guidelines to protect all of our employees.
We added hazard pay for hourly employees at certain of our manufacturing sites and distribution centers, and, where feasible, we ensured that employees were paid for absenteeism due to COVID or COVID-like symptoms without having to use PTO.
Our sales team started a “Thank  You” campaign creating video testimonials thanking our front-line workers for their extraordinary efforts to keep our production and distribution running smoothly.
We also started several initiatives to address employee stress, to help manage change and promote healthy practices including mindfulness sessions and sharing tips and tricks for working virtually.
In the U.S., Teleflex established a  Supporting Our Working Parents Program in recognition of the unique challenges faced by parents working from home and juggling family responsibilities.On top of promoting flexible work schedules, Teleflex IT support was made available for working parents with children doing virtual schooling.
The Supporting Our Working Parents Program established a weekly reading circle for children in kindergarten through second grade and provided weekly online educational programs for older children, including a Mad Science series.
In addition, we started a Get Offline & Outside Challenge and negotiated discounts with national tutoring organizations for our employees.
Teleflex is so thankful for all of our  employees who are working to improve the health and quality of people’s lives with the work they do each and every day.
In 2020, Teleflex launched a series of Frontline Stories on Teleflex.com to honor those Teleflex employees who returned to the frontlines of their healthcare specialty to help in the fight against COVID‑19.
These stories of resilience, hard work and incredible dedication have served as a source of hope and inspiration in these challenging times.
Front ‑ Line Stories 2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Talent Management & Development  We are committed to providing our employees with  opportunities for growth, development, and career advancement and to building a high-performance culture that supports our Core Values throughout the employee lifecycle.
We have implemented a talent management process  that provides regular coaching check-ins between employees and their manager to review the employee’s developmental objectives and career progression.
We also regularly review our talent portfolio and  succession plans to ensure we can deliver on our strategy as a company.
This process is enterprise-wide with regular time set aside by our leadership to review progress on development plans and ensure support and resources are available to maintain momentum and alignment with business needs.
In addition, we offer a number of internal educational  and training resources to employees throughout our organization.
Among these resources is the Teleflex Academy, a curriculum that provides learning opportunities for our employees to further develop their skills and receive training across broad subject areas such as leadership, communications, diversity, equity and inclusion, sales, customer service, and business acumen.
We have facilitator teams around the world to be able  to deliver programs in many of the countries in which we operate and in multiple languages.As part of our talent development strategy, in 2020  we defined our Teleflex Academy development expectations for all employees.
We have established a Core Curriculum for all those in  leadership roles providing a clear framework for progression from newly appointed team leaders through our senior leadership team tailored to their levels and needs with our programs, including:  The Essentials of Management, Good to Great Coaching, Teleflex Leadership Development, and Teleflex Strategic Leadership.
We also continued to add timely and relevant  programs to our curricula including programs on leading teams virtually, addressing emotions and work and mindfulness and resilience.
For information on our new Inclusive Leadership Program, please see the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion section below.
We also completed a successful ‘pilot’ of the  Compassionate Leadership Academy Program in 2020.
This comprehensive development program offers tools and support to enable our managers to build high performing teams through gaining a deeper understanding of oneself and helping to understand others.
We plan to roll-out the Compassionate Leadership Academy Program company-wide in 2021.
• W e introduced 8 new programs    to our Teleflex Academy curricula.
•  W e more than doubled  the training  modules available on Teleflex Academy.
•  Over 1,300 employees took advantage  of our Teleflex Academy development  opportunities, an over 150%  increase   in participation from 2019.
In December 2020, our Global Talent  Development team hosted a Festive  Wellness Week making daily guided  mindfulness practices available  focusing on gratitude, sleep, happiness,  physical wellness, and connection.
This program brought together  hundreds of colleagues each day from  around the world.
Global Talent Development   Spotlight:In 2020.
Benefits     We actively manage our global  compensation and benefit programs to ensure we can attract and retain the critical talent we need to continue to deliver on our commitments to employees, customers, patients, and shareholders.
We believe our compensation offering  is aligned to competitive market pay levels and, along with our culture and Core Values, acts to incentivize the right behaviors and actions to achieve the best results for the organization.
We structure our compensation to  include a mix of pay components of base salary, short-term cash incentives and long-term incentives.
We offer our employees health,  welfare, and retirement benefits and have implemented policies addressing paid time off, flexible work schedules, employee assistance, parental leave, and family benefits, among others.
Family Support   Ours is a multigenerational, geographically diverse workforce.
There’s no “one size fits all” benefits program.
Each of us has different preferences, changing priorities and life milestones.
One of life’s major milestones is growing one’s family.
To demonstrate our continued  investment and commitment in our most valuable asset at Teleflex, we have a Family Friendly Benefits Program for our full and part-time employees in the U.S. That program includes our Parental Leave Policy, which offers up to six additional weeks of paid time off for parents following the birth or adoption of a child, providing employees with flexibility to balance work and with the life changing event of welcoming a child into a family.
The program also provides enhanced  support for families growing their families through adoption and those seeking fertility treatments.
Globally, we provide parental leave in accordance with all local regulations.
Tuition Assistance     Teleflex supports the continued professional development of our employees.
In addition to the training programs provided directly by Teleflex, Teleflex also maintains a Tuition Assistance Program.
This program provides opportunities for  employees to be reimbursed for the costs for tuition, laboratory, registration, and other mandatory fees and required textbooks for certain kinds of job-related courses.
Best Place to Work We devote significant resources to  making Teleflex a rewarding place to work, which includes creating a diverse and welcoming corporate culture, offering meaningful growth opportunities, and rewarding our employees for exceptional performance.
In December 2020, our efforts   were once again recognized by our marketplace with Teleflex being named as one of the Best Places to Work by the MedReps community of medical sales talent for the fourth consecutive year.
“Teleflex’s parental leave policy provided me the opportunity to take paid leave with the birth of my third son.
The policy drastically reduced stress for our family and allowed me to bond with our new baby and take care of my wife in the postpartum period.
I am proud to work for an organization that recognizes the importance of supporting its employees and their families during what is a challenging time.”    Joe Aaron, Project Manager, Anesthesia,  Morrisville, North Carolina, USA 2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTDEI Leadership In 2020, we continued to cultivate our  commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion through the creation of our Global DEI Council led by our CEO and four Regional DEI Councils headed by DEI Champions from the Global DEI Council.
The Global DEI Council’s mission is to provide oversight, counsel, and visibility to the importance, initiatives, and progress related to diversity, equity, and inclusion at Teleflex.
The Regional DEI Councils serve the key function of engaging and supporting local teams in implementing Teleflex’s Global DEI Objectives.
Our Regional DEI Councils will continue to establish feedback communication channels in each of the regions to ensure that our organization is truly listening to our employees and working to support their location to facilitate an inclusive working environment.
DEI in Recruitment and  Retention One of the goals of our DEI Councils is to  support the attraction, development, and retention of diverse employees in alignment with our Core Values.
In our efforts to provide a diverse slate of candidates to our hiring managers, we deploy several recruitment channels to source talent from a variety of organizations including multiple social media outlets, co-op placement, local universities, and technology institutes.
We also work with numerous external recruiting firms that focus on diverse candidates.
In 2021, we will continue to look for ways  to strengthen our recruitment processes to ensure a locally defined diverse slate of qualified candidates is presented for each Teleflex opening prior to commencing interviews and plan to develop a simple means of tracking for reporting purposes for reporting to our DEI Councils.
In furtherance of our Global DEI  Objectives, throughout 2021, we intend to compile comprehensive data on proportional representation at the supervisor and manager level globally and proportional representation of multicultural talent at supervisor and manager levels in the U.S. We also plan to expand mentoring  opportunities by matching diverse talent with senior Teleflex leaders outside of that individual’s reporting line.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion   Diversity is a belief that is  firmly rooted in our Core Values and fosters an environment of inclusion and a place of creativity and innovation.
We believe that diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) drives value for employees, patients, customers, and shareholders by engaging a broad range  of perspectives and experiences to enrich our offering to these communities.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT 1.
Ensur e Teleflex Core Values are  lived throughout the company…  every day, at every level.
2.
By indicator of diversity ,  the percentage of Teleflex employees by employment category will reflect the talent market(s) in which we work and compete.
3.
W e believe in equal pay  for equal work.
Teleflex is committed to fair and equitable compensation, taking into consideration the elements that appropriately influence pay (e.g.  experience, geographic location, and individual performance).
4.
Ensur e the rich diversity of  Teleflex talent is valued and intentionally woven into the fabric of how we make decisions and operate as a company.
Teleflex Global DEI   Objectives:Inclusive Leadership Training In 2020, in partnership with The Humphrey Group, our Global DEI  Council and all members of executive management completed a comprehensive Inclusive Leadership Training.
This Inclusive Leadership Training program consisted of online modules  and live virtual sessions and was intended to help participants: •  Understand the curr ent landscape of DEI; •  Gain insight into curr ent debates within the discourse; •  Clearly articulate each individual’s position on DEI; •  Understand each individual’s r ole in creating the inclusivity they want; •  Learn the tactics of inclusive communication; and •  Become comfortable using common and less common DEI terms.
W e plan to expand this training program to all managers in 2021 and  intend to launch several learning programs designed to support the many  forms of diversity at Teleflex and empower all our employees to participate fully in DEI initiatives.2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT2020 Creative  Conversations Series Presented by One Teleflex The Unconscious Bias:   Unconscious biases, also known as implicit biases, are the underlying attitudes and stereotypes that people unconsciously attribute to another person or group of people that affect how they understand and engage with others.
In the first session of the Creative Conversations series, we explored how we unknowingly have unconscious bias and what we can do to minimize the effects on ourselves and others.
Awareness to Action:    While we cannot completely rid ourselves of unconscious bias, we can learn how to recognize it and lessen its impact in the workplace.
These are skills that everyone can learn.
In this training, through discussion and exercises, participants moved from awareness to action, learning how to interrupt bias and leverage the full potential of diverse teams and colleagues in the workplace.
The Influence of Inclusion:    Diversity does not exist without inclusion.
When all employees feel included, they feel a sense of belonging that drives increased positive performance and creates collaborative teams.
This session helped us to find ways to move beyond diversity and create a more inclusive workplace.
One Teleflex was formed in 2016, spearheaded by employees in our Morrisville, North Carolina office.
One Teleflex is committed to promoting the global Teleflex DEI initiatives across all sites and surrounding communities in the US and is dedicated to providing opportunities for employees at Teleflex sites across the US to improve, succeed and excel in their careers through Employee Resource Group (ERG) communities, workshops, and virtual events.
In 2020, One Teleflex organized a  virtual Creative Conversation Series open to all Teleflex employees to help Teleflex build an inclusive culture that encourages, supports, and celebrates diversity and inclusion.
One Teleflex has been instrumental in establishing and expanding our ERGs. Our ERGs are an additional channel for Teleflex to invest in our employees, people, and cultures.
Our first ERG, Women Inspiring Learning and Leadership (WILL), was formed in 2016.
By the end of 2020, we had six distinct ERGs with over 1,000 members.
Our ERGs are managed by employees and though mostly focused in our Morrisville, NC office at present, participation is open to all.
Our ERGs hold regular meetings for  members and host events for the broader Teleflex community.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the majority of our ERG events moved online in 2020.
In June 2020, our African-American Professional Network employee resource group held a virtual lunch-and-learn event to allow employees to learn more about the protests sparked by the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and others, the Black Lives Matter movement, and ways to lend support and be a good ally to the Black community.
This event also served as a space for Black Teleflex employees to share their own experiences with how these events have impacted their daily lives.
As part of our Global DEI Strategy,  ERG groups are being set up in all of our regions expanding the opportunities for our employees to participate locally in ERG groups that are important and appropriate for each region.
One Teleflex2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Employee Resource Groups • W omen Inspiring Learning & Leadership (WILL) •  African American Pr ofessionals Network (AAPN) •  PRISM (LGTBQ) •  OXYGEN for Y oung Professionals & the Young at Heart •  W orking Parents Network •  V eteran’s ERG (VERG)Employee Recognition To recognize and honor our employees’ dedication, innovation, and integrity we empower our managers to  regularly reward achievements and celebrate milestones of our employees.
In addition to regional and business unit specific awards and programs, we also solicit nominations from around the globe for the annual Teleflex Chairman’s Award.
The Teleflex Chairman’s Award recognizes employees who make a significant business impact while  exemplifying Teleflex’s Core Values.
This prestigious award is open to full and part time employees or teams from anywhere in the world and is voted upon annually by the Teleflex Executive Committee.
The winners of the 2020 Teleflex Chairman’s Award were: •  Linda Whelan , L&D Director of Global Transportation, located in Athlone, Ireland.
Linda and her team developed a robust, scalable web-based Transport Management System (TMS) that  provides complete transparency of freight spend and an internal portal for tracking shipments.
•  Cathal O ’Reilly, Senior Director, Operations Excellence, located in Athlone Ireland.
Cathal led efforts in implementing a disciplined process to manage continuous improvement projects (CIPs) for our global supply chain and deploying lean tools and training around the globe.
•  T he One Teleflex Team comprised of Damien Bridges, Booker Bullock, Stephanie Carola, Rachel  Chalhoub, Samantha Clark, Shante Demary, Nicole Eloyan, Brian Gall, Cari Gardener, Harry Green, Darrell Jones, Stephanie Munise, Alisha Robinson, Sarah Woo, and Kelly Yocina, located in Morrisville, North Carolina and Pleasanton, California.
The One Teleflex team is comprised of volunteers devoted to uniting and celebrating our diverse workforce.
Through the unique challenges of 2020, One Teleflex brought communities together through new and expanded ERGs, initiatives to support working parents during the pandemic, and their educational ‘Creative Communications’ series that fostered and strengthened internal dialogue around diversity and inclusion.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Chairman's Award Criteria  Significant and measurable business impact  in one of the following areas: •  Innovation   For example, process or system  improvement, product introduction, technological advancement.
•  Customer F ocus  For example, retention of key external customer, going above and beyond for an internal customer.
•  Pr oductivity  Driving change that translates to measurable increased productivity.
•  Sustainability   Helping Teleflex act with even greater purpose relative to the sustainability of our business, our environment, and the causes closest to us in our local communities.EHS: Our Zero Harm Vision for our People In line with our Zero Harm Vision, we strive to protect  the safety and health of Teleflex personnel and the environments in which we operate.
We have a vested interest in protecting our most valuable assets – our employees.
Everyone is a steward of EHS, fostering a culture of being actively responsible in all our operations.
We remain fully committed to complying with all relevant EHS legislation and to achieving our vision.
We have and will continue to expend resources to construct, maintain, operate, and improve our facilities across the globe for environmental, health, safety, and sustainability of our operations.
In response to the risks associated with the COVID-19  pandemic, we have expended resources to implement various safety measures, including implementing social distancing protocols and expanding personal protective equipment availability and usage, across our facilities globally in an effort to protect the health and safety of our employees and others.
Employee Safety Teleflex tracks key Occupational Safety and Health indicators including all EHS Incidents and the internationally benchmarked DART Rate.
Through our Zero Harm strategy and supporting  programs, we have maintained a low level of overall injury severity rate per 100 employees with our 2020 DART rate of 0.76 comparing favorably to the industry.
8  We have set continual improvement targets to further decrease our total injury and DART rate per 100 employees per year in 2021.Going forward, we aim to continue to find ways to reduce our Zero Harm Score.
Our Zero Harm Score is a single point, high level EHS Management Indicator calculated by a weighted mix of EHS Incident and Non-Conformity metrics.
9    We plan to accomplish this through a multi-faceted approach, including implementation and adherence to EHS Management Systems, best practice hazard controls, and other EHS initiatives, all aimed at lowering incident frequency and severity and improving performance regarding EHS Non-Conformities.
Health and Wellness Occupational health management is a critical component of effective safety management, and we are aware of the interface of non-occupational health and wellness (the active process of becoming aware of and making choices toward a healthy and fulfilling life).
Our EHS Group collaborates with our global functions  like Human Resources, harnessing talent and reach to cooperate on health and wellness programs, including working initiatives related to nutrition, building-in adequate physical activity, stress management, heart health and more in an effort to help our employees improve their health and wellbeing.2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT • EHS Cultur e Shift  A move to progressing our EHS culture maturity forward.
•  Identifying Hazar ds  The critical first step in managing something is awareness and knowing about it.
•  Reducing Risk   Focus on continual, universal familiarity with, and application of the ‘Hierarchy of Controls’.
•  Investigating Incidents   Learn from all incidents – particularly those that have no injury.How we aim to keep our  employees safe: Continued Pursuit of Excellence   in our Global Facilities     Teleflex’s facilities are constructed to ensure our  workspaces promote optimal physical health and an environment of overall care and well-being for our staff.
Our scientific environments are designed to encourage and foster creativity, communication, and innovation.
In 2020, we made significant efforts to expand the  use of natural light at a number of campuses and added collaborative work areas that enable employees to have greater flexibility and more networking opportunities in an environment that encourages and nurtures their ability to do their best work.
We look forward to our employees being able to fully benefit from these spaces in the future as we continue to emerge from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2020, our Kamunting, Malaysia team moved into  newly constructed state-of-the-art office space with spacious meeting and training rooms with abundant natural light and additional collaborative space.
The new building extension was designed to accommodate significant certified Class 8 Clean Room space and Controlled Room space.
There is a covered linage walkway from all the buildings to the cafeteria, which is designed to encourage employee mobility.
In addition, renovation work and landscaping dramatically transformed the internal and external face of the facility to promote the health and wellness of our personnel.
In addition to the creation of the employee carports as part of our Solar Panel Project, in 2020, our Tecate, Mexico facility was expanded to host additional space for employee services including a new training room and collaborative desk spaces.
The expansion also includes a new warehouse space that roughly doubles the site’s prior capacity, and significant additional certified Class 8 Clean Room space.
Our Kulim, Malaysia facility was expanded in 2020  to accommodate additional certified Class 8 Clean Room space, Controlled Room space and new warehouse space.
The expansion also includes new rest areas for all employees and new training rooms to allow all our employees to enhance their skills.
Additional rest areas and a cafeteria upgrade are still in progress.
External infrastructure with new parking areas and additional landscaping have been designed to provide employee mobility.
A rainwater harvesting system has also been installed at our Kulim facility to help conserve water.
41 2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTTeleflex Products: Innovation, Safety & Quality   from Concept to Commercialization   Teleflex is committed to transforming patient care  through a unified product development process that delivers the right product, to the right market, at the right time.
Teleflex’s concept to commercialization (C2C) process was launched in 2020 to ensure new products are robustly designed to fulfill unmet clinical needs and developed to deliver the maximum benefits to healthcare professionals and patients.
The C2C process defines best practices for product  development across all areas of Teleflex involved in the design, manufacture, and commercialization of new products.
Ensuring a standardized approach, clarity of expectations and measures of success.
A critical element of our new C2C product development process is the integration of Human Factors into all aspects of device design and design improvements.
Having one standardized approach also provides an opportunity for employees involved in the development of new products to achieve mastery in the C2C process creating a roadmap of development opportunities.
Research, Development   & Innovation At Teleflex, Research and Development supports our  objectives to provide innovative new, safe, and effective products that enhance clinical value by reducing infections, improving patient and healthcare professional safety, enhancing patient outcomes, and enabling less invasive procedures.
We continue to invest in our internal R&D function, having recently moved part of our R&D team in the U.S. to a state-of-the-art technology center with improved environmental controls.
As Teleflex continues to look for ways to strengthen our  early-stage product development portfolio and increase the number of products developed in-house at Teleflex, we have sought to establish early-stage unmet need discovery opportunities through clinical access partnerships with universities that have clinical programs and technologies that align with our business segments.
In addition to our internal R&D, we also acquire   or license products and technologies that are consistent with our strategic objectives and enhance our ability to provide a full range of product and service options to healthcare professionals.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Innovation Spotlight:  Despite the extraordinary challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, 2020 marked the successful launch of the Arrow ® ErgoPack® Complete CVC  Insertion System, a critical tool in the fight against central line-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI).
The cost of treating an infection places significant burden on health care systems around the globe.
Teleflex prides itself on listening to the needs of our customers.
After watching thousands of hours of central line procedures, we applied these customer learnings and enhanced the design of our popular ErgoPack ® System.
Designed to meet independent third-party guidelines, the ErgoPack ® Complete System  features the antimicrobial Arrowg+ard Blue Plus ® CVC, the Arrow® GlideWheel™  Advancer designed for better control, a kink-resistant nitinol guidewire and a transducer probe cover.
These healthcare professional-inspired enhancements have been implemented to help customers improve workflow efficiencies and reduce infections, thereby reducing the costs associated with treating infections.
In 2020, we also readied to launch the next phase of the ErgoPack ®  Complete Family with the Arrow® ErgoPack®  Complete MAC and PSI Systems to expand our ability to meet our customers’ needs.Product Quality and Safety Teleflex is dedicated to the development, manufacture,  and distribution of clinically relevant medical products based upon healthcare professionals’ requirements.
The quality and safety of Teleflex products and services is at the core of our business.
Teleflex has established a Quality Management System (QMS) to ensure that products and services meet customer requirements and comply with the applicable standards and regulations governing them.
Teleflex employees are committed to product quality and safety through our "Think Quality, Think Teleflex" initiatives.
Quality Policy, the QMS &   Quality Planning Teleflex provides high quality, compliant medical  devices, and outstanding customer service to support healthcare providers and enhance patient outcomes.
Enabled by Teleflex Management, every employee has ownership of the effectiveness of our QMS.
We strive for continuous improvement and encourage an environment that promotes proactive change.
The QMS is defined and managed as a series of  interlinked processes where management processes are connected to product lifecycle processes and underpinned by supporting processes.
•  QMS pr ocesses apply a risk-based approach based  on their effect on the safety and performance  requirements of the medical device, and on meeting applicable regulatory requirements.
•  The r equirements for key process inputs, outputs,  and interactions are described in the QMS documents associated with those processes.
Procedures for quality planning establish and define the practices, resources, and activities relevant to the design, manufacture, and distribution of the components, devices, and services.
In 2020, we continued to execute on our plans to  ensure compliance with MDR, which imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices (as compared to the predecessor Medical Device Directive), including in the area of clinical evaluation requirements, QMS, economic operators and post-market surveillance.
Management Responsibility &  Management Controls Management commitment to quality is demonstrated  by establishing and communicating the quality policy and objectives, maintaining an adequate organizational structure, planning for quality, assigning a management representative at each facility, and periodically reviewing the QMS to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness to meet the standards and regulations for medical device manufacturers.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Innovation Partnerships:   In October 2020, Teleflex and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill launched an innovation partnership focused on identifying novel unmet needs for vascular access in oncology patient population.
This partnership builds on a strong culture of innovation that includes key partners such as the North Carolina Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute, UNC Health and Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center.
The vision of the partnership is to accelerate the front end of innovation for Teleflex, while also forging a new model for translational science at UNC.
At its core, the effort blends expertise across provider stakeholders, clinical data mining and product development to address shifting trends in healthcare and patient care.Maintaining the Effectiveness of the  Quality Management System  The following QMS processes ensure continuous  delivery of high-quality medical devices and equipment that meet customer requirements, are safe and effective, and enhance medical care:  Customer-Related Processes  Customer requirements are determined prior to provision of product and/or services according to established procedures to ensure requirements are fulfilled.
In addition, feedback is monitored to ensure the organization has met customer requirements.
Design Controls  Design activities are controlled and monitored to ensure that specified design requirements are met.
The objective of design activities is to deliver customer focused products and services which meet or exceed customer expectations for product safety and performance while remaining compliant with global regulatory requirements.
Teleflex establishes contracts and agreements to ensure customer requirements are clearly defined and reviewed.
Purchasing and Distributor Controls  Teleflex has controls over outsourced processes affecting product conformity to facilitate compliance with requirements.
The Purchasing Control process was established to help select, assess, and approve suppliers related to product, material, services, or QMS processes.
The Distributor Control process was implemented to help ensure our distribution partners are aware of Teleflex’s technical, regulatory, commercial, financial, legal, and business requirements to which they are expected to adhere.Production and Process Controls Teleflex establishes and maintains procedures that describe the process controls necessary to ensure our products conform to their specifications.
The procedures are utilized to develop, conduct, control, and monitor production processes.
Post Market Support  The Post Market Support process includes customer feedback and inquiries, the complaints process, medical device, and vigilance reports, and reviewing the post-production phase of the product.
The process is monitored, measured, and analyzed for effectiveness and to support global quality objectives.
Risk Management  Teleflex establishes, documents, and maintains a risk management process to manage safety risks for medical device products through the lifecycle.
Nonconformance (NC) and Corrective and  Preventive Action (CAPA) Teleflex drives continuous improvements via the NC and CAPA processes.
The CAPA process manages the investigation, risk assessment, and correction of systemic nonconforming events, and potential nonconforming events.
The NC process controls product not conforming to specified requirements.
Teleflex ensures nonconforming product is controlled to prevent its unintended use or delivery.
Field Corrective Action (FCA)  Teleflex takes all customer complaints related to the quality and safety of our products into consideration.
All complaints are reviewed, evaluated, and investigated to allow for corrective and preventive actions to be taken as necessary.
Teleflex communicates recalls and advisory notices to its affected customers and regulators for product safety or quality issues.
Audits  Quality audits independently measure and monitor the QMS to confirm it is effective and maintained and complies with applicable standards and regulations.
Management Review  Reviews are undertaken at regular intervals by, or on behalf of, executive management, including at our manufacturing sites and distribution centers, to assess the suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness of our quality system relative to our quality policies and objectives.
Quality and process issues are escalated using a Quality Data Metrics process.
Certification and Compliance   Teleflex follows national and international standards and regulations, where applicable, documented within global policies and global  and/or facility level procedures relevant to the specific activities.
• ISO 13485 Quality Management System Medical Devices •  ISO 9001 Quality Management  Our Certifications: 2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORTPillar IV: Prosperity & Sustainable Procurement that2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Teleflex Product Training and Education:  Engage, Educate, AlignIn furtherance of our mission of  improving the health and quality of people’s lives, Teleflex believes in continuing to expand access to our products, providing engaging and in ‑ depth product training,  supporting medical education and clinical research and giving back to the communities in which we live and work.
Teleflex is also committed to  maintaining robust standards both for Teleflex’s labor force and the suppliers with whom we work in an effort to support economic prosperity worldwide.
Prosperity & Sustainable Procurement Robust product training and education are   foundational to ensuring healthcare professionals are using Teleflex products in a safe and effective manner.
Our comprehensive approach to product education  and training is designed to inspire confidence and advance care.
Clinically relevant education empowers healthcare professionals to increase their competency, no matter where they work.
We regularly partner with medical organizations and academic institutes to create and offer new training programs.
Our product training and educational offerings consist of hands-on skills labs, procedural training, online learning through Teleflex Academy, speaker series and conference support.
Content on the Teleflex Academy is oriented for adult learning, region specific and available in multiple languages.Teleflex’s product training and education focuses on addressing unmet educational needs and requirements of our customers, regardless of size or location.
In Latin America, our Clinical and Medical Affairs team prioritizes providing training to emergency services personnel in rural areas to ensure our educational offerings are available to all who need them.
During 2020, we created new digital learning  environments that are enabling us to continue to support our customers and healthcare professionals while maintaining appropriate safety requirements.
In fact, despite the restrictions of COVID-19, we educated more than 60,000 healthcare professionals on the use of our products during 2020.2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Medical Education Grants Teleflex is committed to supporting independent educational  endeavors that are consistent with our mission to improve health outcomes.
All unsolicited Medical Education Grant requests for monetary and/or in-kind support are reviewed by our regional Grant Panels including representatives from our Business Units, Finance, Compliance and Clinical and Medical Affairs.
Teleflex provides Medical Education Grants for the following  categories:•  Continuing Medical Education pr ograms presented by  accredited providers; •  Education pr ograms for Health Care Professionals; and •  Medical Society Sponsor ed programs.
Clinical Research Grants In addition to our own clinical research, Teleflex also provides research grants and support to healthcare providers in areas relevant to Teleflex’s business.
All requests are reviewed and managed by our Global Clinical Operations team, part of our Clinical and Medical Affairs department, who ensure that all supported studies are conducted in accordance with the applicable study protocol, applicable institutional policies, generally accepted standards of Good Clinical Practice (GCP), and all applicable laws and regulations.
Grant-eligible recipients may include healthcare professionals from private practices, hospitals, academic medical centers and universities.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Teleflex recognizes the value and  importance of robust clinical evidence relating to our products.
In support of the development of new products and expansion of indications for our existing products, Teleflex invests heavily in clinical research.
Teleflex is committed to conducting  clinical research using the principles of Good Clinical Practice and adhering to all local and regional regulatory requirements.
Clinical research is managed by our Global Clinical Operations team in cooperation with regional Clinical and Medical Affairs team members.
All clinical research initiated by Teleflex is reviewed by an institutional review board or ethics committee.
Teleflex recognizes that there is a need  to and value in expanding diversity and inclusiveness in clinical research because minorities and other special groups have been under-represented in clinical trials in the past.
10 Teleflex is  committed to designing clinical trials that are inclusive and represent the demographic diversity of the populations in the regions where the research is being conducted.
Teleflex recognizes that diversity in research benefits all of the population by ensuring our products are developed and qualified to meet the needs of the total population.
All qualifying Teleflex initiated research is registered on ClinicalTrials.gov, allowing interested patients to find applicable trials for which they can volunteer.
In 2020, Teleflex initiated several  real-world studies, including studies relating to the UroLift ® System and our  Arrowg+ard Blue AdvanceTM PICCs. In  June 2020, Teleflex also announced the first patient enrollments in a clinical study that will evaluate the performance of Teleflex coronary guidewires and specialty catheters in Chronic Total Occlusion (CTO) percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures, which is currently an investigational indication for these products.
Enrolling up to 150 patients across 13 investigational sites in the US, the CTO-PCI Study is a prospective, single-arm IDE study employing the primary angiographic endpoint of successful (intralumenal) guidewire placement beyond the CTO.
Study devices include the GuideLiner ®  V3 catheter, TrapLiner® catheter,  Turnpike® catheter, and a series of  five coronary guidewires (SpectreTM  Guidewire, R350TM Guidewire, RaiderTM  Guidewire, WarriorTM Guidewire and  BanditTM Guidewire).
Each study device  is currently commercially available in the US under a more general indication.
These products are investigational devices for clinical evaluation as used in the CTO-PCI study.
The CTO-PCI study will evaluate the performance of the entire range of Teleflex complex PCI products in the most demanding PCI environment: chronic occlusive coronary disease.
The resourcing of this study by Teleflex reflects our commitment to providing the most advanced tools for our customers and their patients.
As a result of our efforts to conduct  research and generate data to support our products combined with input from healthcare professionals using our products every day.
In October 2020, we received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to expand the Indications for Use of the Arrow ® EZ-IO® Intraosseous  Vascular Access System.
The Arrow®  EZ-IO® System is now available with the  expanded indication stating use of the device may be extended for up to 48 hours when alternate intravenous access is not available or reliably established in adults, and in pediatric patients 12 years and older.
In patients who require longer-term access, the expanded indication gives healthcare professionals additional time to establish vascular access safely, choosing the appropriate device and optimal site of insertion to meet the patient’s clinical needs.Clinical Research “The expanded indications of  the Arrow® EZ‑IO® System are of  particular importance in a time of constrained resources and patient surge.”   Michelle Fox,   Corporate VP & Chief Medical Officer2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Teleflex Foundation  The Teleflex Foundation was formed in 1979 to positively  impact the quality of life in Teleflex communities.
We achieve this goal by supporting qualified charities and non-profits to further Teleflex’s purpose of improving the health and quality of people’s lives around the globe, with a particular emphasis on organizations that have the commitment of or a direct impact on our employees and their families.
The Teleflex Foundation encourages the philanthropic spirit  and active engagement of Teleflex employees through the following programs: •  Make a Differ ence (MAD) Grant   Each year, the Teleflex Foundation awards cash grants  to healthcare related charities and other non-profits nominated by our employees.
These nominations are reviewed and prioritized by the Foundation’s officers in large part based on level of employee engagement with the organization, for example as a volunteer or benefactor.
•  Matching Gifts   The Teleflex Foundation matches employee gifts of $50 and above to eligible charities and non-profits up to $2,000 per donor on an annual basis.
•  T eam Volunteer Program  The Teleflex Foundation provides grants of $1,000 for teams of 5 or more Teleflex employees participating in events to raise money for eligible charities and non-profits.
In addition, the Teleflex Foundation makes an annual gift to Americares, a global organization that supports people affected by disaster or poverty.
In April 2020, Teleflex’s donation to Americares went to support needs resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Humanitarian Donations  As a global medical device manufacturer, Teleflex believes it has a responsibility to maintain a targeted needs-based Humanitarian Donation Program to provide assistance in the event of natural disasters and to help improve the quality of life of those living in vulnerable situations.
Our Humanitarian Donations policy was developed in line with World Health Organization (WHO) Guidelines on Medical Device Donations.
Donation requests are reviewed by our Humanitarian Product Donation Working Group made up of representatives from several of our non-commercial functions, including Clinical and Medical Affairs, Compliance, Regulatory and Trade Compliance As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we saw the volume  of requests for humanitarian donations rapidly expand.
In an effort to respond quickly and efficiently, in April 2020 we set up a COVID-19 dedicated process to review and process COVID-19 related humanitarian donation inquiries.
Our COVID-19 Humanitarian Donation Program facilitated the donation of medical devices commonly used in critical and intensive care environments to treat COVID-19 patients, such as Personal Protective Equipment including face masks with shields, gowns and masks, and products across Respiratory, Vascular, Anesthesia and Emergency Medicine, to meet urgent needs faced by health care providers and patients.Philanthropy at Teleflex Additional Avenues   of Support We also provided support  to the Emergency Medicine Foundation’s new Health Disparities Research Grant, which has been providing COVID-19 research grants to find solutions to this and future pandemics.
Teleflex is an Americares  Emergency Response Partner.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT JOIN, our employee-driven initiative,  continues to be an invitation to join in and act with purpose.
At Teleflex, we are united by a common sense of purpose that what we do every day makes a difference.
Dedicated and committed to supporting local charities and causes that are close to our hearts, the stories shared by our employees highlight how taking part in worthwhile events also creates a greater sense of meaning and purpose.
As we continue on our journey  ahead, it is exciting to see how our volunteering efforts are continuously evolving, demonstrating the generosity of the human spirit, inspiring each other along the way to make the world a better place.
Employees at Teleflex continue to  embrace sustainability throughout the business with a growing appetite to take action and improve our impact on the environment.
Under the JOIN umbrella, employees have been joining in and giving back to those who need it the most.
These acts of kindness continue to inspire those around us, and really demonstrate how our employees are living our Core Values.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, our employees seized the opportunity to support each other across the globe within Teleflex in addition to supporting their local communities.
Our JOIN Yammer group, which  is the second largest group on the Teleflex Yammer Platform, launched a JOIN initiative called “JOIN In it Together” in April 2020.
The campaign encouraged employees to stay connected through Yammer by posting their stories and experiences as we navigated through COVID-19.
Throughout the period of the  initiative, employee visits to the page, posts, views, and likes all rose significantly in comparison to the preceding 6 months.
This employee driven initiative served as a great source of support to our employees around the globe as we all dealt with the unique challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Community Engagement2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT JOIN Stories from around Teleflex   Seeds of Growth (France) To further support our JOIN Protecting Pollinators  initiative, Team Teleflex France employees were gifted with a letter printed on seed paper.
Each paper contained wildflower seeds integral for pollinator survival for our employees to plant in their gardens.Helping Hands (Singapore) Team Teleflex Singapore held a virtual JOIN event in  partnership with the Helping Hands Program.
The team were given kits to assemble prosthetic arms while using only one hand to understand the challenges faced by an amputee.
The team also decorated pouches for the arms and wrote notes for the recipients.
Light a Sparke (South Africa) Team Teleflex South Africa got busy knitting and joined  local NPO “Light a Sparke” in the ‘Beanies for Preemies’ initiative which donates beanies for premature babies to the public hospitals in South Africa.
This much ‑ needed  cause helps underprivileged communities by keeping newborns warm and giving them a stronger chance of survival by stabilizing their body heat.
A Journey of a Thousand Miles (Ireland) Team Teleflex Limerick, Ireland raised money  for PPE for the local Milford Care Centre.
The team took on the challenge of circumnavigating Ireland throughout the month of July and tracking their steps to raise funds for this worthy cause.The Beauty of Books (Japan) Team Teleflex Japan held an event to support a program  run by the Shanti Volunteer Association (SVA) to deliver picture books to children in Laos.
The association aims to increase literacy by helping to improve small libraries in Asian schools and villages.
Our team worked together to gather book donations and add translation notes to help the children read in their native language.Autumn Drive (USA) Team Teleflex Arlington Heights held a virtual  fall food drive.
The team donated everyday non ‑ perishable food items to the Whe eling Township  Food Pantry that were distributed to local people in need during the holidays.
2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Teleflex is committed to ensuring compliance to  globally recognized labor standards established by organizations such as the International Labor Organization and the U.S. Department of Labor among others.
Our Labor Standards Assurance System (LSAS) is designed to ensure that working conditions in our facilities, and throughout our supply chain, are safe, that all employees are treated with respect and dignity, and that sourcing and manufacturing processes are managed in an environmentally and socially responsible fashion.
To support these efforts, we provide internal  training on LSAS and communicate and reinforce our expectations with our suppliers.
As of the date of this report, our LSAS Policy has been issued to over 500 of our suppliers.
Teleflex is dedicated to upholding the human rights of all employees, whether full-time, part-time, temporary, student, contract, or other employment status, and treating them with dignity consistent with standards and practices recognized by the international community.
We expect our suppliers to do the same.
This includes prohibiting discrimination, harassment, involuntary labor, child labor, and restrictions on the right to freely organize as well as complying with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations around working hours, wages, and benefits.
As of the end of 2020, approximately eight percent  (8%) of our employees in the U.S. and in other countries were covered by union contracts or collective bargaining arrangements.
It is likely that a portion of our workforce will remain covered by collective bargaining and similar agreements for the foreseeable future.
Environmental Health and Safety Teleflex expects its suppliers to share our vision of striving to cause Zero Harm to people and the environment.
For more on our Zero Harm Vision as it relates to our employees and the environment, see above.
Supplier Ethics & Compliance Teleflex is committed to working with suppliers that observe the highest standards of ethical conduct and take prompt and appropriate measures to address non-compliance with our requirements and expectations.
Those expectations include prohibition and prevention of bribery and corruption, maintaining robust measures to ensure privacy and information security, conducting business in a fair and transparent manner, and protecting whistleblower confidentiality and prohibiting retaliation.
Supplier Diversity Teleflex strives to provide opportunities to diverse suppliers, both large and small, to provide goods and services to Teleflex as part of our corporate procurement process.
The use of diverse suppliers is an integral part of Teleflex’s purchasing procedures, and Teleflex recognizes that supplier diversity creates a competitive advantage and positively impacts the global community.
We believe that our success and the success of our society depends on enabling diverse businesses to share and grow in the global market.
Teleflex is committed to ensuring that supplier  diversity is an integral part of our business by: •  Establishing r easonable and attainable goals  consistent with applicable country diversity  guidelines and Teleflex’s policies and practices in order that qualified, competitive diverse suppliers are given fair opportunity and consideration to participate in the procurement of goods and services, and maintaining business processes to measure and report our success.
•  Pr oviding all Teleflex personnel who are  involved in the acquisition of goods and services adequate tools and training to enhance their understanding of and ability to meet Teleflex’s supplier diversity goals and objectives.Labor & Supplier Standards2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Supplier Quality Teleflex strives to continuously improve the quality,  reliability, and cost of all its procured products and services.
All direct material suppliers and third-party OEM suppliers are required to comply with Teleflex’s quality standards.
At a minimum, Teleflex suppliers must demonstrate  compliance with the following: •  Pr oducts purchased will conform to all product  specifications.
•  Suppliers will not change the method or location of  their manufacturing facility without sufficient prior notice.
•  Suppliers will not change any material used in the pr oduction of the device or raw material without  sufficient prior notice.
•  Suppliers will be continuously monitor ed for quality and  delivery performance metrics.
We also work closely with our strategic suppliers to develop continuous improvement projects that will bring value to our organization, such as: •  V alue engineering •  Impr oved product quality •  Impr ove supply chain metrics (on time delivery,   lead time, etc.) •  Cost r eductions •  Pr oductivity improvements •  New pr oducts or existing product enhancements •  Lean Six Sigma and Six Sigma pr ojects •  P ackage design and development2020 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT Teleflex Incorporated Non-GAAP Reconciliations ADJUSTED INCOME RECONCILIATION 2017 2018 2019 Amounts attributable to common shareholders:   income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax$  155.3   $ 3.33$   196.4   $ 4.20$  462.0   $ 9.81$  335.8   $ 7.Restructuring, r estructuring related and impairment items $  20.3  $ 0.44$   82.3  $ 1.76$  33.4  $ 0.71$  62.3  $ 1.Acquisition, integr ation and divestiture related items $  36.8  $ 0.79$   59.5  $ 1.27$  52.1  $ 1.11$   (28.0)   $ (0.59) Other items $  4.1  $ 0.09$   2.8  $ 0.06$  8.2  $ 0.17$  0.8  $ 0.MDR $  0.0  $ 0.0$   0.0  $ 0.0$  3.2  $ 0.07$  11.3  $ 0.Intangible amortization expense, net of tax $  71.1  $ 1.52$   122.9   $ 2.63$  121.9   $ 2.59$  134.3   $ 2.Amortization of dept discount on convertible notes, net of tax $  0.6  $ 0.01$   0.0  $ 0.0$  0.0  $ 0.0$  0.0  $ 0.T ax Adjustment, net of tax $  101.4   $ 2.17$   (0.6)  $ (0.01)$   (155.8)  $ (3.31)$   (12.0)  $ (0.25) Shar es due to Teleflex under note hedge $  0.0  $ 0.05$   0.0  $ 0.0$  0.0  $ 0.0$  0.0  $ 0.Adjusted income fr om continuing operations, net of tax   Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations$  389.5   $ 8.40$   463.5   $ 9.90$  525.0   $ 11.15$  504.5   $ 10.67ADJUS TED EARNINGS PER SHARE RECONCILIATION (dollars in millions, except per share)  References: 1   See table above.
2   On June 28, 2021, we completed the sale of a significant portion of the Respir atory business to Medline Industries, Inc.
Measuring Stakeholder Capitalism: T owards Common Metrics and Consistent Reporting of Sustainable Value Creation, World Economic Forum White Paper, prepared in collaboration with Deloitte, EY, KPMG and PwC, September 2020    available at  http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_IBC_Measuring_Stakeholder_Capitalism_Report_2020.pdf.
UN Sustainable Development Goals available at  https://sdgs.un.org/goals.
Includes management gr oup listed at Teleflex.com  Includes industry and tr ade groups of which Teleflex is a member and for which Teleflex pays at least $25,000 per year in membership dues or fees.
Based on pr oject technical design specifications, internal calculations, and local invoicing.
Data regarding projected reduction in carbon emissions sourced using U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Energy and the Environment Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.
D ART rate is for Global Operations and OEM only.
DART rates reflect cases with days away from work, job restrictions or transfers.
Industry DART rates are available from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The D ART Total for “Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing” (SIC 3391) is 1.1.   9    ZHI (EHS non conformity metric), TIR (Occupational Health & Safety incident fr equency rate) & DART (Occupational Health & Safety incident severity rate).
See, e.g.,  https://www.fda.gov/consumers/minority ‑ health ‑ and ‑ health ‑ equity/clinical ‑ trial ‑ diversity and https://acrpnet.org/2020/08/10/representation ‑ in ‑ clinical ‑ trials ‑ a ‑ review ‑ on ‑ reaching ‑ underrepresented ‑ populations ‑ in ‑ research/ thatTeleflex, the Teleflex logo, Advanced Tissue Control (ATC), Arrow, Arrowg+ard Blue Advance, Bandit, Combat Gauze, Deknatel, ErgoPack, EZ-IO, GlideWheel,  GuideLiner, LMA, MANTA, Pilling, QuikClot, QuikClot Control+, R350, Rusch, Spectre, TrapLiner, Turnpike, UroLift, Warrior, and Weck are trademarks  or registered trademarks of Teleflex Incorporated or its affiliates, in the U.S. and/or other countries.© 2021 Teleflex Incorporated.
All rights reserved.
MCI-2021-0374