  
 Doing well 
by doing good 
Corporate Sustainability Report 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Over the past year, 
we’ve all dealt with the many complex challenges the world faces. But we can’t just wait for change to happen. We must drive that change. 
The world is now more interconnected 
than ever — a fact that was reinforced by the pandemic. While COVID’s impact wasn’t felt equally, it’s incumbent on all of us to work together to rebuild. Amid this moment of recovery, there’s opportunity to create an economy and society that work for all of us. 
At Mastercard, we’re combining our 
compassion with our strengths in business — innovation, inclusivity, flexibility and trust. That work continues, now with greater urgency. Several years ago, we set science-based targets to focus our efforts to address climate change. We’re building on that with our recent pledge to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, and creating the Priceless Planet Coalition to plant 100 million trees over five years. 
In 2020, we met our goal to bring 
500 million people into the digital economy, but we can’t stop there. We raised that commitment to bring 1 billion people, 50 million small businesses and 25 million women entrepreneurs into the digital economy by 2025. 
To tie the environmental and social 
pieces all together and accelerate our efforts, we issued a Sustainability Bond. We formally linked executive compensation to three real and measurable sustainability priorities. These efforts illustrate how serious we are about making real change. 
Why do we do this kind of work? It’s 
because we know we succeed when the world succeeds. Added to that, we know inclusion and diversity are major strengths of our business. Those principles are opportunities to drive impact and will continue to guide us as we keep raising the bar for ourselves in building an inclusive, sustainable digital economy. 
At the root of sustainability is the 
word sustain — to hold up. We all need to sustain each other as schools, shops and economies reopen and we can come together again. 
Sustainability isn’t possible without 
everyone’s involvement — that includes major businesses like ours. Making sustainability initiatives commercially viable helps them become a part of everyday commerce and mainstream business practices. This is where companies like Mastercard are uniquely positioned to do our part. 
We’ve navigated through the 
pandemic together. We should move forward together to create change. 
Michael Miebach CEO, Mastercard 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG CEO Letter 
2    
   
 
 
  
 
  
       
    
 
 
 CEO letter 
Highlights Our response to COVID-19 
In Solidarity 
01 02 03 04 05 
ABOUT INCLUSIVE OUR PEOPLE ENVIRONMENTAL ETHICAL AND 
MASTERCARD GROWTH AND CULTURE STEWARDSHIP RESPONSIBLE 
STANDARDS 
Our purpose Financial security Talent attraction Operational Ethics and 
manifesto Data science for and recruitment footprint compliance 
Sustainability social impact Development Environmentally Privacy and 
Innovation and Future of workers and retention conscious solutions data protection 
new technologies Community support Culture Safety and security 
and giving Employee benefits, Human rights 
well-being and rewards Responsible sourcing 
and supplier diversity 
Assurance letters 
Sustainable 
development goals 
TCFD index 
The report covers the 2020 fiscal year, spanning Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2020. In some cases, we include data and information about programs and activities 
relevant to our corporate sustainability key areas of impact that occurred in the 2021 fiscal year, as noted. ESG data table   
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    Highlights 
• Tied executive compensation to ESG 
goals and priorities, including carbon neutrality, gender pay parity and financial inclusion.
1 
• Issued a sustainability bond to support significant progress already 
made toward maximizing carbon reduction, supporting environmental choices for customers, and fostering inclusive growth.
1 
INCLUSIVE 
GROWTH 
Reached financial inclusion 
target of bringing 500 million 
unbanked people  into the 
digital economy. 
Increased commitment to 
bringing a total of 1 billion people  and, 50 million micro and 
small merchants into the digital economy worldwide — and providing solutions to 25 million women entrepreneurs by 2025. 
Mastercard and the Mastercard 
Impact Fund disbursed over 
$80 million in charitable donations  in 2020. 
OUR PEOPLE 
AND CULTURE 
Invested in new policies, 
programs and tools  to 
enhance work-life experience 
for employees globally, including tools to support mental well -
being and financial support for adoption, surrogacy or fertility treatments for employees globally and tools to support. 
Women employees earn 
$1.00 for every $1.00 men employees earn.
2 
Our STEM-based Girls4Tech™ passed the million-girl mark in 2020, prompting us to commit to engaging 5 million girls by 2025. 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP 
Committed to reaching net-
zero greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions by 2050 across our 
operations and value chain, building on our existing science-based targets.
1 
Expanded the Priceless Planet Coalition  to nearly 
60 companies to regrow 100 million trees over five years.
1 
Over 10 million cards produced for issuance since 2018 with approved sustainable materials using Mastercard’s Sustainable 
Card Materials Directory . 
ETHICAL AND 
RESPONSIBLE STANDARDS 
Updated our Code of Conduct , 
adding language regarding 
Mastercard’s commitment to respecting and promoting human rights and our Data Responsibility Principles. 
Published our Board-approved 
Human Rights Statement detailing our commitment to respecting and promoting human rights. 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Highlights 
1 In 2021. 
2 Based on our most recent annual pay 
equity analysis. 
4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 Our response 
to COVID -19 
Mastercard focused on 
helping individuals and businesses by ensuring that our network remains secure, resilient and reliable, and by applying our technology, philanthropy and data-science expertise to rebuild healthy communities and ensure that economic growth is inclusive. Mastercard has committed up to 
$300 million in the fight against COVID-19, which includes: 
• $250 million in financial, 
technology, product and insight assets  over the next five years to 
support the financial security and vitality of small businesses and their workers. 
• $25 million seed money to establish the COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator  with 
the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and Wellcome to speed the development of and access to therapies. 
• $10 million challenge issued by data.org  for ideas that use data 
science to advance inclusive growth and recovery around the world. data.org was founded by the Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth and the Rockefeller Foundation in January 2020. 
• $10 million in April 2021 to directly address critical COVID-related needs in India including 
access to hospital resources, access to additional oxygen 
supplies, and continued support of the company’s employees across the country. Our company 
• Had no COVID-19-related layoffs 
in 2020. 
• Introduced a COVID-19 global employee benefit for up to 10 business days of additional paid leave for sickness, childcare or eldercare. 
• Covered 100% of costs of COVID-19 testing for all employees and provided access to free COVID-related telemedicine consultations for U.S. employees. 
• Provided employees with flexibility 
to decide where and how they work and put precautionary health and safety measures in place at all offices. 
Our customers 
• Engaged with several hundred 
national and local governments globally to help digitize relief programs and support recovery planning, such as the secure delivery of social disbursements. 
• Accelerated contactless payments to help people stay safe and healthy by championing an increase in limits, making signatures optional, accelerating no-touch transit and driving QR acceptance. • Provided recovery insights for customers to navigate the rise in e-commerce, fine-tune operations 
and prioritize investments. 
• Offered free cybersecurity 
vulnerability assessments and identity theft protection to businesses, as well as free cybersecurity rating assessments to all health care organizations. 
Our communities 
• Partnered with the Mayors Fund 
of LA, the City of Los Angeles and Accelerator for America to create the Angeleno Campaign, a financial assistance program aimed at providing direct relief for Angelenos in need. 
• Launched collaborations with partners like UberEats, iFood and Lyft to provide meals and essential services for frontline workers and vulnerable communities. 
• Extended access to our signature STEM curriculum, Girls4Tech™, 
through a suite of new online, creative educational resources designed to help parents and teachers engage and inspire kids ages 8–12. 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Our response to COVID-19 
5  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
  
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
     
01 
In Solidarity 
In Solidarity was created 
in 2020 in response to the systemic racism that continues in our world, particularly in the United States. It includes a concrete set of actions across three pillars: people, market and society. 
It is the culmination of recent discussions across 
the company, and is built upon our firm conviction that Black lives matter. In Solidarity  is also a 
public declaration that there is no place for racism or discrimination at Mastercard — or anywhere else. Although it grew out of the murder of George Floyd and the ensuing social injustice protests in the United States, this long-term companywide initiative is the first step in addressing similar issues 
in countries elsewhere around the world. People 
• Embracing inclusive leadership 
through a global training program 
for all employees that is anchored in The Mastercard Way. 
• Bolstering our Black employee recruitment through new and expanded partnerships with historically 
Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) and key organizations, including a heightened focus on diversity within our new-hire programs globally. 
• Growing our Black leadership at the VP level and above by 50% by 2025. 
• Engaging in ongoing Open Circle discussions on the progress of the plan; opportunities for individuals to share their stories; education; increased support for Business Resource Groups; and personal counseling resources. In addition, the Mastercard Day of Solidarity has become an annual Community Day. 
• Investing in Black colleagues by increasing participation in formal training, mentorship, sponsorship, skill development, and health and well-being programs. 
• Increasing transparency in our workforce with annual reporting on Black and other minority representation in managerial positions, interview slates and hiring, where geographically possible. Market 
• Conducting a review of payments 
and adjacent ecosystems for biases, inequities and weaknesses in how we serve the varied needs within Black communities, from the affluent to the underserved. 
• Respecting and promoting human rights in the use of our network, particularly in relation to issues impacting the Black community and using our Human Rights Statement as the guidepost for future network policies. 
• Expanding our annual spending with Black suppliers by more than 70% to $100 million annually by 2025. 
• Reviewing our brand work through the lens of racism and bias, with a view to enhancing our already strong performance. Society 
• Pledging $500 million over five 
years to help close the wealth 
04 
and opportunity gaps faced by 05Black communities in the U.S., 
02 
03 
ESG drawing on assets from across the company — including our technology, partnerships, products and services. 
• Taking a leadership role in public policy and advocacy efforts on police reform and criminal justice reform. 
• Building on our employee volunteerism to devote even more time to organizations and activities that most directly impact Black communities around the world. 
• Deepening our partnership with the National Urban League by launching the Entrepreneurship & 
Workforce Resource Partnership. 
• Enhancing our community 
partnerships with other leading civil rights organizations and expanding our Master Your Card financial literacy program in Black communities. 
• Examining how racism and 
bias, LGBTQ+ issues and other inclusion dimensions factor into our government engagement and company advocacy work globally. In Solidarity 
6 01 ABOUT 
MASTERCARD 
Mastercard is a global technology company 
in the payments industry. Our mission is to connect and power an inclusive, sustainable digital economy that benefits everyone, 
everywhere, by making transactions safe, simple, smart and accessible. 
For more about Mastercard, please visit our site . 
7 01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
ESG Our responsibility is to let basic 
human decency  serve as our guide, to 
innovate with purpose, and to unlock potential for people everywhere. 
We strive to bolster trust at 
every touchpoint, to use data for 
good, and to build networks that empower society. OUR PURPOSE MANIFESTO 
We see a connected world 
where humanity unites, prosperity is possible and opportunity is open to us all. We nurture the entrepreneurial spirit 
and show the world that borders aren’t boundaries for partnership, because of the exponential power of people coming together. 
We see beyond what technology can 
build, to how passion can transform 
economic growth into inclusive, sustainable growth. We are rewriting the future as we go. Our connection with each other fuels us to connect the world. 
And when we believe and build 
together, it creates priceless 
possibilities for everyone. 
8 01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
About Mastercard 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
ESG We are applying our technology, 
products, services, insights and partnerships, along with our people, to address urgent social, economic and environmental challenges on a commercially sustainable basis, helping ensure that people can reach their full potential, that economic growth is inclusive, and that the planet can thrive. 
Sustainability at Mastercard 
involves reducing our carbon footprint and offering consumers the opportunity to do the same. It means creating pathways to foster inclusive growth  for underserved communities 
around the world. At Mastercard, we understand how 
interconnected the world is, and we’ve seen firsthand how our commitment to environmental and social responsibility is directly connected to our continuing success as a business. Sustainability 
And it involves organizing ourselves 
around sound and ethical business 
practices that are guided by clear and sustainable purposes. 
To learn more about our 
sustainability governance framework and stakeholder engagement, please visit pages 48–50 in our 2021 Proxy Statement. We received the following awards, among others, in 2020: 
• 100% on Disability: Disability Equality Index (DEI) — Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion 
• 100% on Human Rights Campaign Foundation Corporate Equality 
Index — Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality 
• Bloomberg’s Gender Equality Index 
• CDP Supplier Engagement 
Leaderboard 
• DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies for Diversity 
• Dow Jones Sustainability 
North America Index AWARDS 
Mastercard is honored to have earned 
recognition for our environmental, social and governance work. 
• Ethisphere’s World Most 
Ethical Companies 
• Forbes’ World’s Best Employers for Women 
• Fortune’s Blue Ribbon Companies 
• Fortune’s Change the World list 
• Fortune’s World’s Most Admired Companies 
• FTSE4Good Index 
• JUST Capital’s JUST 100 List and Industry Leader 
• Newsweek’s America’s Most Responsible Companies 
9 01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
About Mastercard
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
 
 
    
   
     
   
 
   
 
   
     
  
   
  
ESG Mastercard periodically conducts 
a formal environmental, social and governance (ESG) materiality assessment that captures views from internal and external stakeholders on ESG topics. This formal assessment ensures that our ESG efforts prioritize key areas of impact important to our external stakeholders and our long-
term business success. In the years between formal assessments, we refresh our results as needed. 
In 2020, we completed a formal 
assessment that incorporated the research and guidance provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB). The assessment was conducted in partnership with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a global nonprofit business network and consultancy dedicated to sustainability. MATERIALITY 
ASSESSMENT 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Ethics and Compliance Financial Inclusion and Security Privacy and Data Protection Safety and Security 
Talent Recruitment, Retention 
and Well-Being High-impact topics 
As part of the process, we 
interviewed internal executive 
leadership as well as external stakeholders, such as investors, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), customers and suppliers. We also collected input from internal senior leadership across the business and in all regions. 
We found that perspectives 
from both external and internal stakeholders are aligned. There was general agreement on the high-impact issues and on the rising number of medium-impact issues. A handful of topics emerged that required adjustment, such as third-party risk management, sustainable consumption and climate resilience. 
10 01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
About Mastercard
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
ESG COVID-19 has widened economic 
inequalities and demonstrated that businesses slow to adopt digitization are more vulnerable. Innovation and 
new technologies 
However, the impacts of the 
pandemic, combined with the increasing sophistication and convergence of emerging technologies, also present a unique opportunity to build a more resilient and ethical post-pandemic world. 
Mastercard is constantly 
experimenting, co-creating and 
de-risking new technology with our partners to develop scalable products and services that will accelerate their business growth. Accelerating the future of commerce through experience and innovation. We power Mastercard’s ability to create and deliver differentiated 
products, services and experiences 
that unlock customer value and drive business growth. 
We are using our expertise in 
building systems and networks to convert emerging technologies and trends into innovative commerce solutions and experiences. We look for new ways to leverage them to improve business-to-business transactions and spur strategic growth, thereby increasing value for our customers and partners and helping them empower businesses and consumers. • Artificial Intelligence 
• Biotechnology 
• Blockchain • Consumer Behavior • Cryptocurrencies • Cybersecurity • Mixed Reality • Nationalism • Quantum Computing • Regulatory • Robotics • Social Norms • Startup Innovation • AI & Sonic Drive-thru 
• Community Pass 
• Loyalty Link 
• Mastercard Farmer 
Network 
• Payment on Delivery 
• Provenance 
• Track BPS CAPABILITIES 
• Experience Centers 
• Experience Design • Experience Research & 
Insights 
• Innovation Management • Partner Experience • Product Lifecycle 
Management 
• Research & Development 
LABS 
• Labs as a Service 
• Nairobi Lab PORTFOLIOS 
• Commercial 
• Customer Experience • Data & Services • Emerging Consumer Solutions • Merchant • Strategic Growth 
MASTERCARD FOUNDRY 
11 01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
About Mastercard
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
ESG PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS 
In Mastercard’s five globally located 
Innovation Labs, our R&D team explores disruptive technology and cutting-edge trends in new domains through applied applications. 
Our research agenda is 
collaborative and purposeful, balancing creativity with delivery to build the future of commerce with our partners. Mastercard’s cloud-first approach enables engineers to work with speed and address market needs at scale. 
We have a well-established 
patent program that supports these activities, providing incentives for all employees wherever they sit, to rethink and reimagine the potential of the digital economy. These efforts led to Mastercard being recognized as #143 in the IPO 300, a listing of the top 300 companies who acquired U.S. patents in 2020, and we are one of the leaders in blockchain-related patents among financial services companies. Provenance Solution Modern supply chains are increasingly complex, fragmented and opaque, as businesses expand their reach to consumers globally. The Mastercard Provenance Solution provides end-to-end visibility by leveraging blockchain technology, delivering real-time traceability and bridging gaps between data silos. This allows decision-making based on a shared record. 
Pay on Demand 
Mastercard formally launched Pay on 
Demand in Uganda in partnership with Airtel Africa, Asante and Samsung to accelerate digital inclusion in the underserved region. Pay on Demand unites financial institutions, original-
equipment manufacturers and telecoms in order to reach underserved people in emerging markets. It enables those people to finance devices, thereby broadening their access to smartphones, which in turn allows them access to financial services such as credit. Labs as a Service (LaaS) teams consult with our customers to better understand their business challenges and develop custom solutions to support their digital transformation efforts.  In 2020, these engagements 
included support for financial wellness and financial inclusion. We are exploring new products that could encourage savings to improve financial health and build credit scores as part of our financial inclusion commitments. We are partnering with clients who are making a meaningful difference. 
Mastercard Accelerate helps fintechs 
connect with technology partners to find end-to-end solutions and countless methods for bringing new services to communities in need. Accelerate’s Start Path program offers this support to promising companies with readiness to scale. We provide fintechs with a suite of tools and resources and access to Mastercard’s executive network to maximize their commercial success and ability to shape the future of commerce. In 2020, 33 new companies joined the Start Path program, bringing total partnerships to nearly 250, including approximately 75 woman-led startups. SIGNAL-SPOTTING 
AND RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT COLLABORATION 
WITH PARTNERS Finicity Open Banking Solutions Finicity, a Mastercard company, was founded to help individuals and families use their financial data to gain better insights and improve their financial health. Banks, lenders and 
fintechs can use Finicity Lend products to help consumers get access to credit and improve their credit scores by leveraging expanded data sources, leading to greater financial inclusion. 
Track Micro Credit Program 
The Mastercard Track Micro Credit Program commercially launched in Egypt in 2020, empowering small retailers by giving them access to credit and helping them break the cycle of cash dependence. The global platform enables financial institutions to extend credit to small retailers in developing markets by leveraging supply-chain data and fast-moving consumer goods companies’ distribution channels. This helps small retailers to grow by seamlessly integrating credit into their existing sales cycle, helping to access and build credit, and frees small retailers and suppliers from a reliance on cash. The program includes scalable trainings and tools around financial literacy and product education. It was created in partnership with the Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth. 
12 01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
About Mastercard
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESG The COVID-19 pandemic, its economic 
repercussions and the global unrest caused by racial injustice created an inflection point for society in 2020, highlighting how we need to build a more sustainable and inclusive digital economy that works for everyone, everywhere. 02 INCLUSIVE 
GROWTH 
13 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ESG In 2018, Mastercard dedicated 
$500 million of its savings generated by the U.S. and European tax reforms to advancing inclusive growth, so we created the Mastercard Impact Fund, an independent nonprofit entity. Administered by the Center, the Impact Fund’s mission is to provide funding in areas related to inclusive growth. 
In 2019, Mastercard organized the first 
Global Inclusive Growth Summit. Our commitments to financial inclusion and inclusive growth proved prescient in 2020, as COVID-19 exacerbated social 
and economic inequalities and furthered the case for accelerating access to and full participation in the digital economy. 
In April of 2020, having met our goal of 
bringing 500 million unbanked people into the financial system, we doubled down on our commitment to financial inclusion, pledging to bring an additional 500 million people into the digital economy, for a total of 1 billion people by 2025. We also pledged to connect 50 million entrepreneurs to the digital economy, while providing solutions to 25 million women entrepreneurs to help them grow their businesses. 
2017–2019 2020 Mastercard has been 
working toward building an inclusive digital economy over the last decade. 
Mastercard introduced the Master 
Your Card community education 
program to help consumers and small businesses learn how to get more from their money by using electronic payments technology. 
Mastercard launched a “Cost of 
Cash” study and co-chaired the World Economic Forum’s financial 
inclusion steering committee. 2011–2013 2014–2016 
We created the Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth, “the Center,” a philanthropic hub within the company that produces actionable insights, invests in social impact programs and engages a community of leaders — all in service of advancing equitable and sustainable economic growth. 
In 2015, Mastercard committed to 
bringing 500 million people into the digital economy by decade’s end. 
14 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
ESG Racial equity 
As part of In Solidarity, Mastercard pledged $500 million over five years to help close the wealth and opportunity gaps faced by Black communities in the U.S. We also promised to take a leadership role in advocating for criminal justice reforms and to enhance our partnerships with civil rights groups and community-based organizations leading the work across the U.S. 
A path forward 
We know that this moment calls for more than incremental change. It calls for systemic change that examines the fundamentals of how our economies do and don’t work for all segments of society. The Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth, in partnership with the Centre for Public Impact, developed Built for 
All, a global framework outlining how public, private and civic sectors must collaborate to mobilize action and ensure a future of sustained prosperity, equal participation and responsible stewardship. 2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
By harnessing our innovation, technology, people, capital and trusted network, we strive to help build a global economy that promotes greater financial security 
for individuals and their families; enables small businesses to grow and create jobs; uses an evidence-based approach to economic development; and closes persistent opportunity gaps for women and minorities. We envision an economy that is built for all and benefits all. 
COVID-19 frontline relief 
Collectively, Mastercard and the Mastercard Impact Fund have committed more than $33 million in philanthropic grants to address both the health and financial impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. This commitment includes $25 million as a founding partner of the COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator , alongside the Bill and 
Melinda Gates Foundation and the Wellcome Trust. 
Small-business support 
Mastercard has made a five-year, $250 million commitment to providing small businesses impacted by the economic fallout of the pandemic with financial tools, technology, products, 
funding and insights, to help them survive and thrive. Support includes free cybersecurity checks and fraud assessments as well as assistance in moving to digital storefronts. 
15 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
ESG Financial security 
Building on our history of financial inclusion, we 
have helped millions of individuals and small businesses stay resilient during the pandemic, partnering with governments, financial service 
providers and NGOs. Digital transformation has helped existing partners pivot to remote work, shift to e-commerce and rapidly deploy relief during COVID-19. 
In 2020, Mastercard worked with 
governments worldwide, providing systems and services to help protect people and businesses and allow efficient and equitable distribution of aid. We helped deliver 
vital welfare payments to alleviate hardship, credit lines to keep small businesses going, and economic stimulus to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 and accelerate recovery in its wake. More than half of the nearly 250 initiatives launched in more than 50 countries during the year were directly related to COVID-19 relief. HELPING GOVERNMENTS 
SUPPORT THEIR CITIZENS 
For example, a program in Los 
Angeles leveraged Mastercard’s services 
and technology to raise funds through our Donations Platform and then load more than 38,000 cards with almost $37 million in emergency funds. This COVID-19 relief helped roughly 105,000 residents. The Angeleno Campaign 
provided direct assistance over just a few months to families experiencing extreme financial hardship due to the pandemic shutdown. 
16 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 ESG 
Our early investments in digital 
transformation for Community 
Development Finance Institutions (CDFIs)  scaled quickly in 2020 as 
CDFIs became a lifeline for micro and small businesses. Our grants helped 
CDFIs and NGO partners pivot to remote work during the pandemic and helped rapidly deploy billions of dollars 
in relief to small businesses in need: 
• A $2.5 million grant to Community 
Reinvestment Fund helped create a digital application process for federal aid. This alleviated much of the application burden for small businesses, supporting the disbursement of $5.8 billion in loans through the federal Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). Over 2,400 businesses that benefited from the loans could not access PPP through traditional financial 
institutions. DIGITIZING AND 
MODERNIZING FINANCIAL SERVICE PROVIDERS 
• A million-dollar COVID relief grant 
contributed to the enablement of the nonprofit Grameen America, and the 52,000 low-income woman entrepreneurs it serves across the U.S., to go 100% digital, from weekly check-ins to loan disbursements and repayments. Going forward, all new loans will be funded directly via prepaid disbursement cards. The grant also helped fund critical relief activities, including loan forgiveness, payment holidays and digital repayment fees. Since 2015, Mastercard grants have contributed to Grameen’s efforts to support nearly 135,000 women with more than $1.7 billion in small-business loans. • We committed to deploying $20 million into CNote Promise 
Accounts , an insured cash 
management solution with impact. Through this commitment, funds will be deposited into CDFI banks and Low-Income Designated credit unions to provide funding that will expedite the recovery of underserved communities and woman- and minority-owned businesses across the U.S. 
• Our partnership with the global nonprofit Accion , which helps 
8 million people and 3 million small businesses, quickly adapted to the pandemic in 2020. We have now reached eight financial providers and more than 35 fintechs, helping micro- and small-business owners worldwide to digitize their products and services to support themselves and their customers. In response to COVID, new projects included a shift to e-commerce platforms adopting remote customer service support and reimagining group lending for a no-contact world. 
Our grants helped CDFIs and NGO partners 
pivot to remote work during the pandemic and helped rapidly deploy billions of dollars in relief to small businesses in need. 
17 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 ESG 18 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  DIGITAL-FIRST RESOURCES 
FOR SMALL BUSINESSES 
In addition to the hardware and 
software requirements, small businesses also needed the technical guidance and support to rapidly shift to an all-digital economy. 
Tech-enabled training 
and mentorship Getting small businesses digital-ready 
often meant finding the right mentors. In partnership with Mercy Corps, the Center for Inclusive Growth created MicroMentor , a digital platform 
matching small-business owners across the Middle East and North Africa with mentors. From MicroMentor’s initial launch in April 2019 to January 2021, nearly 1,600 mentors and more than 4,800 entrepreneurs engaged on the platform. In 2020, with the Mercy Corps and Global Cyber Alliance , we 
expanded the platform to Indonesia. 
Digital tools for micro 
and small businesses  In response to the challenges small businesses have faced during the pandemic, Mastercard created Digital 
Doors , which provides small businesses 
with online access to e-commerce capabilities, products and educational resources to empower and protect them by ensuring that they have the right tools for digital transformation. Through Digital Doors, we hosted a series of educational webinars, including many devoted to promoting minority-owned small businesses and their products and services. We also provided free access to several Mastercard tools, such as those for risk assessment, ID protection and diagnostics, to help small businesses recover faster and stronger from the pandemic. More than 3,700 individuals and small businesses took advantage of these tools in 2020. 
We also have a number of options 
designed specifically for micro-commerce economies in marginalized communities. Community Commerce,  which digitizes 
low-value transactions for shopkeepers in informal convenience stores, offers a safe and secure way for consumers and micro enterprises to receive, store and spend funds digitally. More than 140,000 individuals used it in 2020 to buy goods, creating digital transaction records and helping these small-business owners to gain access to credit and achieve greater financial resilience. 
ESG 
Mastercard Farmer Network  (MFN) 
helps smallholder farmers who typically live on the margins of the economy by giving them a way to pay and get paid electronically, generate digital sales records, and store money digitally. It is now available in India, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. As of March 2021, the network had given approximately 500,000 registered 
farmers direct access to buyers, increasing price transparency and speeding payments. Overall crop sales through MFN increased 263% in 2020. We continued developing products, 
tools and educational programs designed to solve problems for underbanked and marginalized individuals and communities. 
Enabling access to critical services 
through digital infrastructure Mastercard’s Community Pass  is a 
digital platform designed to connect people to essential life services that can fuel inclusive growth. Nearly 900,000 individuals were registered on this secure platform in 2020. Community Pass connects users to the digital economy and helps them better access education, health care, humanitarian aid, agricultural marketplaces and micro-commerce. Eliminating manual, paper-based 
processes reduces the potential for errors and fraud while improving data and visibility for service providers. DESIGNING PRODUCTS AND 
SERVICES FOR UN- AND UNDERBANKED PEOPLE 
An educational payments 
platform in Uganda Kupaa allows parents, schools and governments to make and track digital payments using a mobile app. It also gives schools in marginalized communities a way to maintain real-time data. Despite school shutdowns caused by COVID, the platform was expanded to three new school districts in 2020, bringing the total number of schools registered to 560. Nearly 1,300 education stakeholders, such as teachers and bursars, went through Kupaa orientation in 2020. UNICEF included Kupaa in its digital education framework in 2020. Access through inclusive digital identity The digital “Inclusive ID” acts as a secure, formal identity service, without relying on names or photos or storing sensitive personal data. Instead, Inclusive ID creates secure, biometric tokens that are small, irreversible and unusable without the individual’s presence and permission. They can be stored on a local device or smart card or as a QR code. These biometric tokens protect privacy and reduce the potential for misuse. Inclusive ID works in both online and offline environments with touchless capture to significantly reduce health risks. 
Digitizing health records for tracking vaccinations Wellness Pass  is a platform for 
digitizing paper-based immunization records via a secure chip card developed by Mastercard and the Global Vaccine Alliance . It’s also 
an application that enables record portability and proper treatment, even in offline health centers. Wellness Pass includes electronic notifications, 
allowing service providers to help more children in marginalized communities stay current with their immunizations. In June 2020, we announced that Wellness Pass will be adapted to include pandemic intelligence and vaccination verification. ? 
Mastercard’s Community Pass is a 
digital platform designed to connect 
people to essential life services that can fuel inclusive growth. 
19 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
ESG A suite of low-cost, digital-first 
financial solutions  In 2020, we expanded our partnership with MoCaFi , a Black-owned fintech, 
to better serve financially vulnerable communities. Together we launched the MoCaFi Direct to Consumer debit card, which includes key mobile-first banking features and will help cardholders access capital at scale. 
We also launched Mastercard 
Money Connect Solutions , which helps 
increase financially vulnerable families’ 
access to financial products while reducing their costs. This digital suite of solutions integrates with our partners’ existing apps or websites, including MoCaFi, facilitating the distribution of key services in a secure, more affordable and convenient manner. Those digital services include mobile check-cashing, bill payments, person-to-person payments, cross-border remittances and money management. 
A program for financial coaching 
Master Your Card (MYC)  is an 
educational program that helps marginalized people and small-business owners build solid financial foundations by teaching them the ins and outs of the financial system. During 2020, MYC sponsored virtual events, expanding our reach and message to more than 38,000 
people, and engaged with more than 3,000 individuals and entrepreneurs directly. Eight new financial topics also were added to our library, and we launched two free online learning platforms designed for those aged 7 to 21. MYC youth initiatives include a student program teaching financial literacy in 200 schools in underserved communities in New York and St. Louis. The MYC/EVERFI program has reached more than 40,000 students since launching in 2016. 
A gamified savings program for kids 
It’s never too early to teach kids about finance to help them build solid foundations for future success. In September 2020, in partnership with the Goalsetter app, Mastercard launched the Cashola Card  — a debit 
card with parental controls. The card allows users to make encrypted peer-to-peer payments and includes an app that teaches financial concepts. Goalsetter is part of Mastercard’s Start Path program and is a partner supporting our In Solidarity and financial inclusion efforts within the U.S. 
20 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
ESG We partner with governments 
and NGOs to incorporate data and data analytics into their decision-making processes. Mastercard volunteers participated in a July datathon in Chicago that uncovered COVID-19’s economic impact by industry, neighborhood and business size. The findings have been shared with a broad set of government and public stakeholders to help attract capital to priority neighborhoods in Chicago. 
Our insights from another datathon 
helped the nonprofit Accion and Bolivia’s largest microcredit bank to drive financial inclusion. We provided actionable steps for the bank to expand its digital footprint, improving marketing strategies and empowering employees through data insights. The partnership has helped the microfinance institution become more 
data-driven by building an internal data science team and championing data-driven decision-making across the organization. We also supported governments, 
customers and multilateral organizations worldwide with our data analysis services by providing insights into trends and improving focus within key economic sectors such as tourism — via our Economics Institute . Our analytical platforms, 
which include Spending Pulse and Tourism Insights, helped governments identify changing consumer trends, while our advisory services helped create sustainable plans for economic growth and recovery based on these trends. These insights informed governments’ actions on business and unemployment disbursements, recovery planning, and fiscal stimuli targeted to encourage spending on tourism. For example, our tourism 
partnership with the Georgian National Tourism Administration is helping Georgia rebuild a healthier, more resilient and inclusive tourism industry, after experiencing less than a third of visitor volume in 2020, according to government estimates. Data science 
for social impact 
As outlined in our Data 
Responsibility Principles , 
Mastercard believes data science can be used to improve the lives of millions of people by tackling society’s most significant challenges. We work with organizations from all over the world to do just that. USING MASTERCARD 
INSIGHTS FOR SOCIAL IMPACT 
21 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
ESG Tools for more inclusive 
and equitable growth The Inclusive Growth Score  and 
toolkit is a suite of tools to help community leaders evaluate and fund economic development initiatives in underserved communities. The 
Inclusive Growth Score is an interactive online index that provides insights into social and economic growth at the census-tract level, visualized on a map. The index is based on timely and granular economic and location data and calculates scores using both proprietary and open-source data to promote social and economic growth in underserved communities across DATA-DRIVEN TOOLS AND 
RESOURCES FOR LOCAL DECISION-MAKERS We are committed to building a 
global network of data-driven solutions to help make economic growth inclusive and sustainable for everyone. The data.org  platform, 
launched by the Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth and the Rockefeller Foundation, introduced the $10 million Inclusive Growth and Recovery Challenge in January 2020 to crowdsource scalable and sustainable data science solutions for social sector organizations. 
The challenge drew more than 
1,250 entries from 108 countries. Eight winners  were selected based 
on their exceptional use of data science to advance global inclusive growth. Winners included plans to promote women’s financial inclusion 
using AI and a way to open access to renewable-energy markets for women entrepreneurs. SCALING THE FIELD 
OF DATA SCIENCE FOR SOCIAL IMPACT 
the U.S. We also supported the 
development of two economic-equity resources in partnership with the Urban Institute: a Guide for 
Cities  to create equitable technology 
programs and a spatial-equity data tool  that will help cities to 
keep equity at the forefront when deploying new technologies. 
Furthering criminal justice reform 
Mastercard partnered with Georgetown University Law Center’s Active Bystandership 
for Law Enforcement (ABLE) Project , a holistic program centered 
on training, accountability and transparency. Mastercard is 
providing a platform for ABLE via our City Possible and Signature City programs. Additionally, our employees serve as advocates for ABLE, introducing other corporations and community groups to ABLE’s work. 
22 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 ESG Future of workers 
The nature of work is 
changing rapidly. In developed economies, these shifts have created challenges to workers’ financial security 
and upward mobility. Empowering Black entrepreneurs 
and communities As part of our In Solidarity efforts, 
we are supporting the development of entrepreneurship centers and workforce development pathways to foster job creation and economic opportunity in collaboration with the National Urban League. This program builds on a previous $5 million commitment to support 5,000 Black entrepreneurs by 2025. 
Pathways to job mobility in the U.S. 
In partnership with the Brookings Institution, we produced two tools to help vulnerable workers transition to better local jobs. Using the Mobility Pathways  tool, workers, firms and 
policymakers can compare jobs by wage level and current demand and, through a “mobility index,” identify paths to better jobs. Another tool helps In emerging markets, digital economies face an urgent need to prepare and skill their workforces to meet labor market demand. Mastercard generated new frameworks, partnerships and insights to help workers achieve economic mobility and find better opportunities in a changing labor market. 
local officials identify and evaluate job vulnerability across the U.S. in 380 metropolitan areas. Local leaders can use the data to devise ways to enhance workers’ resilience to economic shocks. Officials in Texas, Idaho and Colorado are using these insights for their COVID-19 recovery strategies. 
Building digital skills in Indonesia 
through training In 2019, Mastercard committed to empowering 100,000 Indonesians by 2023 with the skills necessary to succeed in the digital economy. In partnership with the Government of Indonesia, we provide digital know-how, including STEM and cybersecurity training and mentoring, to students, young adults entering the workforce, entrepreneurs and midcareer professionals. In 2020, nearly 18,000 Indonesians were directly engaged and upskilled through the program. Portable benefits The rise of the independent, or gig, worker has had a significant effect on the global economy, but while the flexibility may suit certain nontraditional workers, the work doesn’t come with the same range of benefits usually available to full-time employees. This has led to a large and growing number of workers losing out on benefits during the pandemic, and the trend will probably continue afterward. Current benefit systems are not designed around modern employment patterns, and expose the vulnerabilities that come with intermittent and flexible work arrangements. 
Mastercard has partnered with 
leading benefits providers like Stride  to 
build a portable benefits solution that makes health, dental and life insurance, personal financial management tools, 
and perks more readily available to gig and nontraditional workers. Stride is embedded in financial products that provide independent workers with access to benefits in this new work era at a low cost. 
23 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth 
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
ESG $177 million 
of dividends to the Mastercard Foundation. In 2020, Mastercard paid over frontline workers and vulnerable 
communities, while also helping small businesses navigate the crisis. We donated nearly $30 million in COVID-19 and other disaster relief, including $1 million jointly with PepsiCo to support medical workers at White Plains Hospital, one of our hometown medical centers in Westchester, New York. The Mastercard Foundation  works 
with visionary organizations to enable young people in Africa and in Indigenous communities in Canada to access dignified and fulfilling work. In 2018, the Foundation launched its youth employment strategy, Young Africa Works, to enable 30 million young men and women to access dignified and fulfilling work by the end of this decade. 
It is one of the largest foundations 
in the world, with approximately $40 billion in assets as of April 2021. To date, it has committed nearly $4.4 billion to programs that support the advancement of financial inclusion and education to create a more inclusive and equitable world. The Mastercard Foundation was created in 2006 through the generosity of Mastercard’s shareholders when Mastercard became a public company. Since its inception, the Foundation has operated as an independent organization with its own board of directors and president and CEO. 
24 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
     
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   Community 
support and giving 
Helping people achieve financial 
security includes helping them meet basic needs — particularly during times of crisis. 
We are supporting communities in 
need through charitable giving to organizations focused on helping people rebuild their lives in times of crisis and recovery. We are also leveraging our technology and network to channel aid quickly and securely. 
During the pandemic, Mastercard 
coordinated with partners, including Uber Eats, iFood and Lyft, to provide meals and essential services for Total Giving* 
Community $50,472,000 
COVID-19 & 
Other Disaster Relief $29,978,000 
Match Employee Giving $5,633,000 
Other Community $14,861,000 
Data Science for Social Impact & $12,905,000 Economic Development 
Financial Security & 
Future of Work $16,791,000 
$80,168,000 
* Includes Mastercard’s and the Mastercard Impact Fund’s 
charitable donations disbursed in 2020 and does not include non-cash donations. The Mastercard Impact Fund is an independent not-for-profit entity created by Mastercard in 2018. The Fund was created after Mastercard dedicated $500 million of savings generated by the U.S. and European 
tax reforms to inclusive growth. 
ESG • Mastercard is a proud partner 
of Stand Up To Cancer ( SU2C ) 
and continued our support of their groundbreaking cancer research in 2020 by donating over $5.5 million together with cardholders. During a year in which consumers were spending increasingly online and seeking touch-free payments in-store, we launched a program whereby every time a Mastercard cardholder made online purchases or contactless purchases in-store at qualifying grocery stores, drug stores, and restaurants, as well as for transit, Mastercard made a donation to SU2C, up to $4 million. Over the past decade, Mastercard has donated over $55 million to support SU2C. 
Mastercard enabled the collection of 
more than $25 million in 2020 through more than 170 donation-driven campaigns and initiatives. 
25 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Inclusive Growth
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 EMPOWERING A 
NETWORK TO GIVE 
Mastercard donations technology 
allows for consumers to give to meaningful causes through everyday spending and provides customers with a way to embed the feature into their services. Mobilizing its 
network of partners and consumers, Mastercard enabled the collection of more than $25 million in 2020 through more than 170 donation-driven marketing campaigns and consumer donation technology initiatives. With the COVID-19 pandemic hitting in early 2020, more than $11 million was raised exclusively to support COVID-19 relief efforts, frontline pandemic workers, and small and micro enterprises facing financial hardship. 
An important driver of this 
purpose-driven solution is empowering giving with our infrastructure and technology through the Mastercard Donate ecosystem. 
This suite of digital solutions 
empowers giving and enables seamless and secure donations, integrating giving into people’s everyday lives — whether they’re shopping online, paying at the point of sale, withdrawing money from an ATM, or using their mobile banking app. In 2020, we also continued our support 
ESG for our longtime partners and their worthy causes: 
• Since our partnership with the 
World Food Programme ( WFP ) 
began in 2012, Mastercard, its partners and its cardholders have donated more than $37 million in over 30 countries, primarily to support school feeding programs. In 2020, more than $4 million was donated to support WFP . For many children around the world, a daily school meal is often the only regular, nutritious meal they receive, and with the onset of COVID-19, WFP had to quickly adapt its program to ensure that children were still able to receive meals while schools were closed. Our goal is to create a robust, inclusive and 
resilient workforce by prioritizing employees’ development and well-being — physical, mental and financial — and by keeping decency at the core of all we do. 03 OUR PEOPLE 
AND CULTURE 
26 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
 
 
 
  
ESG Mastercard’s people strategy is 
evolving, especially in the wake of COVID-19. In 2020, we continued 
to draw on our business strategy to “Grow, Diversify, Build,” as well as on our brand strength, to attract and retain the best talent. This strategy enables an empowered workforce that can adapt to whatever the future brings, and that supports the success of our business. 
We’ve built a thriving culture 
in which our employees know we value innovation and collaboration, and where each person has an equal opportunity for success. The development and execution of regional 
action plans help keep our focus on equality, inclusion and diversity in all the localities where we operate. We are increasing awareness of unconscious bias by introducing and incorporating training and resources into our workplace. We are also examining various policies and 
practices for opportunities to realize greater inclusion and to remove potential barriers to success. 
Through In Solidarity, we have made 
a series of commitments to spur us and others to champion equality and inclusion and provide a level field for all people at Mastercard and far beyond our corporate walls. Read more about these commitments here . 
In addition to the expansion of our talent through acquisitions, we adjusted our hiring efforts in 2020 to reflect this need for new skills and increased specialization. We positioned ourselves for the future by investing in our engineering talent pipeline and career paths. 
We also moved to accelerate our 
inclusion strategy throughout the hiring process. We are enhancing our end-to-end talent program in part by increasing awareness of diversity within existing new-hire programs 
across the company. For more detail, see the ESG table on page 62 . 
COVID necessitated a fully remote 
hiring process in 2020. Recruiting in a virtual environment meant we relied more on Mastercard’s brand as a leading global technology company. Additionally, our traditional onboarding processes were adapted with a series of virtual 2020 New Hire Bootcamps. We surveyed all newly hired employees to determine the success of the virtual onboarding process and found that 94% of respondents felt it met or exceeded their expectations. Our evolving business strategy and 
emerging priorities shape the skills we need to deliver value to our customers and society now and into the future. Talent attraction 
and recruitment 
27 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
ESG Mastercard nearly doubled our 
training class size for new-graduate hires in 2020. We developed new 
ways to find graduate talent in a virtual environment, including technology-focused virtual problem-solving events, a “Tech Talk” series with topics such as front-end architecture and big data, and technical interview prep workshops. 
Our paid-internship programs 
also went virtual. In addition, our efforts include an 18-month new-hire program for recently graduated talent and an 18-month rotational leadership development program for new graduates with advanced degrees. 
Through In Solidarity, we 
committed to bolstering Black employee recruitment through new and expanded partnerships 
with historically Black colleges and universities and other organizations that help us connect with diverse talent, like InRoads . Through our youth employment and apprenticeship partnerships, Mastercard creates unique employment opportunities for underserved youth and young adults in select markets in the U.S., Ireland, and India. We believe these 
programs enhance our talent pipeline, increase the diversity of our workforce and create sustainable, positive social impact. The duration of our youth employment and apprenticeship programs ranges from a few weeks to a few years, with an emphasis on enhancing career readiness, learning new technology-related skills, providing financial support for postsecondary education, and broadening community engagement. We have a number of programs to recruit employees looking to relaunch or reinvent their careers. Those programs can be adapted to fill specific skill needs, help upskill the entire organization, or boost diverse talent acquisition. One 16-week “Relaunch Your Career” program in 2020 focused on upskilling and retraining in four important areas to help women and men returning to the workforce feel confident about their new jobs. Mastercard safeguards the company’s future by developing internal talent. Planning for the 
next CEO is an open and integral part of everyday senior leadership development. We encourage and nurture those who have C-suite aspirations to switch geographies and to move between line jobs, where they gain hands-on experience building their senior leadership skills. We also look internally to develop future country leaders by identifying talented individuals and preparing them to be flexible general managers. We train these senior executives in The Mastercard Way to support our culture’s continued evolution. We equip them with skills to reconcile dilemmas, lead through uncertainty and navigate the real-life challenges associated with both business and people management. CAMPUS 
ATTRACTION YOUTH EMPLOYMENT AND APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS MIDCAREER ATTRACTION EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT AND SUCCESSION 
28 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   ESG Mastercard’s new Learning 
Academies, opened in 2020, are changing how we train and develop our employees. The Academies 
support our corporate business strategy and priorities, and offer programs aligned to regional priorities. This provides a consistent experience and global access to our learning ecosystem, regardless of which area an individual works in. We have a rich portfolio that includes everything from skill-refreshing courses to college and graduate degree credit. 
We have updated our career 
frameworks, creating a new hybrid role by bringing together our product and engineering teams. This new career path complements our existing operations and technology path, designed to ensure that software developers have a defined career-advancement path. We emphasize and develop skills for the future such as agility, collaboration and flexibility 
through our talent and leadership development programs. Our leaders are trained to role-model those behaviors to help sustain our culture. A wide array of educational options gives every person multiple opportunities to enhance their skills and advance their careers. 
We’ve embedded inclusion 
principles into every development curriculum, so our colleagues think and act inclusively. Mastercard believes people’s distinctive backgrounds, experiences and ways of thinking help us deliver innovative products and solutions that are as diverse as the consumers and markets we serve. Mastercard provides on-the-job training 
and development for every employee — all of it virtual in 2020. Development and retention 
LEARNING PROGRAMS 
AND OPPORTUNITIES 
Our top leadership development 
programs in 2020 reached 11% of the 
workforce, including 100% of new-graduate hires and 35% of global people managers. In response to the pandemic, we created our first-ever virtual programs by digitizing content. In another first, hundreds of program alumni participated in a series of virtual events to reconnect with peers, review key concepts and discuss leadership topics. We also provided our people managers with extra training to help them manage their employees during the pandemic. 
29 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
    
  
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ESG Women’s Mentoring Series 
Woman VPs, SVPs and EVPs act as mentors in this 12-month global program for women at the senior analyst and manager levels. It is designed to grow and retain our foundational bench of female talent deep in the organization. The program began in March 2020 with a focus on career-building. Curated content was shared monthly with the mentors and mentees, followed by questions and discussion to help direct the conversation. Board Buddies Mentors who have served on corporate and nonprofit boards are matched with rising leaders who are just beginning their nonprofit board 
service, in a one-year program for senior women and Black leaders. Mentors, known as “Board Buddies,” prepare mentees for board service, equipping them with tools and resources so they are ready to serve. This informal peer support group helps our leaders who are engaged in nonprofit board service to navigate the nonprofit board journey. Boards for Impact This program helps connect talented Black leaders from Mastercard with nonprofit organizations in need of strong, diverse talent while also increasing Mastercard’s community engagement. Serving on boards for these nonprofits helps our people develop key skills to become well-rounded, purpose-driven leaders. Mastercard employees serve on a number of boards, ranging from the arts to legal assistance. 
NEW PROGRAMS 
We supplement our employees’ talent and expertise with mentorship programs that give mentees tools and resources to help build and enhance their skills, inspire personal growth, overcome dilemmas, foster inclusion and support well-being. We also use community engagement through various pro bono programs to build and enhance employees’ skills so they can contribute to social impact and, in turn, become well-rounded, purpose-driven leaders. 
We advanced our efforts to 
maintain a fair and equal workplace for all employees by increasing leadership opportunities in our company for women and underrepresented employees. Nearly 20% of our women employees around the globe participated in opportunities explicitly designed to develop our diverse employee populations through mentorship, pro bono work and other programs focusing on social impact. This training also helps emerging leaders find their voice as they continue to advance their career path. DIVERSITY AND FUTURE 
TALENT PROGRAMS 
30 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
ESG Culture 
THE MASTERCARD WAY 
UNLOCK POTENTIAL Relentless focus 
on our customers OWNIT SIMPLIFY 
THO
UGHTFULRISK-TAKING SENSEOFURGENCY BEINCLUSIVE FORCEFORGOOD 
Underpinning all of this is our culture of decency. It fosters a shared set of values and 
behaviors across the company and is designed around the idea that being inclusive and a force for good — in the workplace and beyond — unlocks potential for ourselves, our communities and our business. Mastercard’s 
approximately 21,000 global employees share a sense of urgency and ownership, balanced by thoughtful risk-taking, to drive a relentless focus on our customers as the heart of The Mastercard Way. In 2020, adherence to it was added to the performance review process for all employees. 
We introduced The Mastercard Way 
Index in our 2020 Employee Experience survey in order to understand employees’ perception of how behaviors are demonstrated from day to day. Survey scores were up from 2019 for 23 of 24 questions. Overall employee engagement favorability increased to 85%, up two points from 2019. 
Career development questions 
increased four points to an overall favorability of 80%, while 93% of employees in 2020 said they were proud to work for Mastercard. The Mastercard Way sets the 
standard for the health and well-being of our culture of decency. Mastercard believes that treating 
everyone fairly and equally strengthens our company. We 
have committed to creating a global workforce, including our management and leadership teams, that mirrors the wider world. We seek diversity of thought, background, experience and ability. Inclusion is integrated into every facet of the employee life cycle. We even teach it as a leadership skill. 
Nine Business Resource Groups 
(BRGs) provide channels through which employees can develop programs and initiatives and increase awareness about inclusion and diversity. Approximately a third of our workforce belongs to these employee affinity groups, which help innovation flourish within our company. 
Each of the 100-plus global chapters is open to all employees. 
BRGsLive 
For this initiative, our nine employee affinity groups created virtual hangouts to keep people connected during the quarantine. From volunteer opportunities to live dance parties complete with a DJ, there was something for everyone. These hangouts continue to foster community and a sense of belonging among our employees, whether they are back in the office or still working remotely. 
Read more about inclusion and 
diversity at Mastercard on our site . INCLUSION 
AND DIVERSITY 
31 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
   
 
     
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
ESG Mastercard employees want to 
enrich the communities where they live and work, and in 2020 nearly 92% said we encouraged their efforts to do so. We help by supporting their charitable donations with matching gifts of up to $15,000 per employee annually, and their volunteerism, such as mentoring underserved students. Full-time employees are allowed up to five paid days per year for eligible volunteer work. Additionally, employees who volunteer at least 40 hours per year with a single organization may apply for up to $2,000 in grants for it. Innovation is an everyday part of Mastercard culture, which encourages our employees to act quickly, think differently and innovate faster than ever. During COVID, our innovation teams 
conducted customer interviews virtually. They found ways to assess current uses accurately and determine future needs for our products, overcoming issues created by customers struggling with technology, space, noise and other difficulties because of the lockdown. 
Project Possible 
We activated employees across the company to help support customers and cardholders through the pandemic crisis with an initiative called Project Possible. Volunteers had the opportunity to stretch their skills and development by working on high-priority projects within the company, including e-commerce and digital optimization, contactless payments, and government engagement. One project helped to raise and disburse COVID-relief funds donated via the Mastercard Donate ecosystem, while another developed automated data and analytics on the impact of COVID-19 on contactless payments. 
* Employees who make PAC contributions are 
allowed to direct Mastercard corporate funding (noncharitable) to the charities of their choosing. Our people have 
volunteered more than 300,000  hours 
since 2015. In 2020, more than 29% of 
our people supported more than 5,100 
organizations  — 
with monetary gifts, which Mastercard matched, or through nearly 55,000 
volunteer hours. AGILITY 
COMMUNITY 
ENGAGEMENT 
$5,633,000 Total Giving 
Employee 
philanthropy $4,568,000 
Retiree philanthropy $562,000 
Board of Directors philanthropy $98,000 
Volunteer Incentive Program $155,000 
Political Action Committee (PAC) match* $250,000 
32 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESG Girls4Tech™ 
Our STEM-based Girls4Tech™ hit an important milestone in 2020, having reached 1 million 8- to 16-year-old girls since launching in 2014. That prompted us to commit to engaging 5 million girls by 2025. The program grew from 31 to 35 countries and added about 660 new mentors, for a total to date of nearly 5,300 Mastercard employees participating. We digitized the curriculum to redress educational gaps early in the pandemic. We’ve also expanded the offerings, creating program extensions including “Girls4Tech™ & Code,” a 20-week coding and mentoring program, and “Girls4Tech™ Cyber & AI,” a deeper dive in these hot skill areas. The ultimate Girls4Tech™ goal is to showcase that it takes all kinds of skills to pursue a STEM career and to create the leaders of tomorrow. Pro bono Various pro bono initiatives help Mastercard employees to be a force for good. In 2020, we expanded these initiatives to include ones specifically aimed at social justice and social impacts. As part of our In Solidarity commitments, we added programs aimed at racial justice as well. Those included a virtual pilot program for Mastercard employees to share their time and expertise supporting Black-led nonprofits focused on racial justice and equality. Mastercard Impact Corps The Mastercard Impact Corps, which launched in 2019, aims to have an enduring impact on the communities where we live and do business. Mastercard people regularly donate their time to individual and team-based volunteering, pro bono placements, and STEM mentoring. The Impact Corps helps employees use their skills for social good by providing a framework for delivering meaningful community impact at scale. In addition, more than 530 
members of our latest launch class of new-graduate hires joined “Launch for Social Impact,” participating in three-month assignments with nonprofits 
around the globe. 
STEM internship 
This two-week program in Gurugram, India, teaches underprivileged students in 8th through 10th grades about Mastercard, Payments 101, soft skills and project work. Nearly 100 students have gone through the internship since it began in 2015. 
Our STEM-based Girls4Tech™ hit an important 
milestone in 2020,  having reached 1 million 
8- to 16-year-old girls since launching in 2014. 
33 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
ESG Our workspaces are designed to be 
safe, secure, and free of harassment and discrimination for everyone. Caring for our people’s well-being in 2020 necessitated fortifying their physical health and safety and protecting their mental health while they worked remotely. It meant paying particular attention to their feedback about areas where they needed extra support. We listened, and are incorporating those needs into our well-being and safety strategies. We took several steps to demonstrate our willingness to help in ways big and small. There were no pandemic-related layoffs in 2020. We implemented a flexible COVID leave policy. 
We also implemented protective 
measures so employees would feel safe when they returned to the office. Our priority was the individual safety of our employees, which compels us to base all decisions on data, science and government guidelines. We indicated to employees in May 2020 that “we’re ready when you’re ready,” meaning that we want them to be comfortable when they return to the workplace. We made modifications to enhance safety, including temperature scans, enhanced air filtration systems and a reduction in capacity. Survey feedback shows our employees do feel safe in the office with 
the precautions we have instituted. Mastercard considers our employees’ 
health and well-being to be paramount, especially in a time of global crisis. Employee benefits, 
well-being and rewards 
Informed by employee feedback, 
we introduced a phased reopening 
plan in 2021 with added flexibility and opportunities to meet in person and collaborate with one another. For the majority of our workforce, this will mean splitting time between working in the office and working remotely. Given that some sites may be ready while others are not, each location will determine its specific return-to-office schedule while maintaining the globally consistent return-to-work framework. Though our plans will continue to evolve, we will ensure that employees always feel safe and supported while maintaining health and safety protocols. 
34 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
ESG Our holistic benefits mean Mastercard 
employees — and their families — can 
access appropriate support when and where they need it. In 2020, we 
invested in new policies, programs and tools to enhance everyone’s work-life experience. Our global New Parent Leave benefit supports adoption and childbirth for all employees who become parents by adoption or childbirth in all geographies — regardless of gender, sexual orientation or caregiver status. It provides a global standard of 16 weeks of 100% paid leave and maintains 100% of bonus eligibility during this time. We also began providing financial support for adoption, 
surrogacy or fertility treatments to employees globally, if not covered by an employee’s medical insurance. Mastercard’s compensation philosophy sets employees up for long-term financial success. We offer 
competitive pay and stock-based performance incentives. Pay packages throughout the company are aligned with our stockholders’ interests to ensure solid performance now and in the future. We continue to proactively assess our compensation practices against a variety of factors, including living-wage levels for the locations in which we operate. 
Closing the pay gap  
We are moving toward pay equity across all measures. Based on our most recent annual pay equity analysis, women employees earn equal pay for equal work — $1.00 for every $1.00 men employees earn. Globally, the median pay for women as of Sept. 30, 2020, is 92.4% of the median for men. In the United States, Mastercard employees of BENEFITS COMPENSATION 
Physical 
• 1:1 virtual health coaching 
• Global fitness challenges 
• 100% coverage of COVID-19 testing costs 
• Free telehealth consultations for U.S. 
employees 
Mental 
• Introduced open enrollment for mental 
health insurance 
• Launched series of mental health webinars for people managers 
• Introduced mental and holistic health 
platforms with associated apps 
Professional 
• Curated, self-directed learning 
and development 
• Virtual mentoring 
Societal • Added Juneteenth to holiday calendar 
• Launched pro bono programs for social 
justice and social impact 
Financial 
• Free financial planning assistance 
• Immediate vesting for company match 
Social • Live and virtual social events 
• BRG socials 
• Global Kids Club Our new Investing in You program 
reflects Mastercard’s commitment to our people and their futures by enhancing their readiness for retirement. All employees globally have 
the opportunity to receive a matching contribution of $1.67 for every $1 contributed on the first 6% of base pay. The end result: When employees contribute 6%, we match their contributions with an additional 10%. RETIREMENT color earn $1.00 for every $1.00 white employees earn, as of September 2020. The median pay for people of color as of Sept. 30, 2020, is 92.4% 
of the median for whites in the United States. While these overall numbers are promising, we are looking deeper into each segment within people of color to identify opportunities in our senior talent pipeline to further narrow the gap. 
35 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Our People and Culture
     
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
      
 
     
 
  
  
    
  
   
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
     ESG 04 ENVIRONMENTAL 
STEWARDSHIP 
Mastercard is mobilizing against climate 
change directly through our business, as well as by committing to net-zero emissions by 2050 and supporting our suppliers’ decarbonization efforts. 
We’re developing innovations that regenerate natural 
resources and reduce carbon footprints. And we’re leveraging our network effect — giving consumers tools to measure their own footprints and make donations to Priceless Planet. 
36 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
  ESG 2025 TARGET52,538 
94% 2020 
55,759 3,221 
6% 
52,141 
92% 2019 
56,898 4,758 
8% 
52,859 
92% 2018 
57,687 4,828 
8% 2017 
71,504 6,587 
9% 
64,917 
91% 94,728 
95% 2016 
99,214 4,486 
5% 2025 TARGET2020 
366,143 2019 
503,012 2018 
495,962 2017 
490,706 2016 
849,277 SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS 
2016–2020 
MTCO2e 
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 
2016–2020 MTCO
2e 
Scope 3 Scope 1 
Scope 2 
In support of this commitment, 
we tied our executive compensation 
to ESG goals in 2021, including carbon neutrality, or the 100% offset of our operational CO
2 emissions. Specifically 
for our supply chain emissions, we work closely with our suppliers — with the aim of helping them reduce their emissions as well. 
These targets reflect our long-
term commitment to monitor and implement best practices to reduce emissions throughout the company, drive operational energy efficiency 
and further engage suppliers in value chain decarbonization. In the future, Mastercard also will review opportunities to invest in carbon removal projects, including nature-based solutions and technologies and services that reduce carbon impact while supporting broader economic and social development goals. 
37 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Environmental Stewardship
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
       
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational footprint 
Mastercard’s global action plan 
ESG calls for continuing the reduction of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in our operations and bolstering efforts to decarbonize our supply chain. 
Our net-zero goal for 2050 builds 
upon existing science-based GHG reduction commitments aligned with the United Nations Business 
Ambition for 1.5°C  pledge. We were 
the first in the payments industry to gain Science Based Targets  initiative 
(SBTi) approval for our GHG goals in 2018. In 2020, we updated our GHG goals to align with a 1.5-degree Celsius climate trajectory. We are working toward these SBTi-approved goals to reduce total Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 38% and Scope 3 emissions by 20% by 2025 from a 2016 baseline, and to maintain or increase those levels of reduction until 2025, at which point we will set new SBTi goals with a new baseline year. After we have decarbonized as much of our emissions as possible, we will utilize carbon removals to bring our operational emissions to net zero. Environmental Stewardship
01 
OPERATIONS 
Mastercard operates 175 facilities 
around the world, and we’re committed to ensuring that all of them are run in an environmentally responsible manner, including those that are leased. All Mastercard-owned properties in the U.S. are fitted with solar panels, and all owned properties in the world are LEED -certified.
 When securing new leases, Mastercard prioritizes locations with green certifications, and includes requirements for renewable energy and Miami offices were among the 
and other sustainability measures first to be certified by the EPA, and 
in all lease renewals. We have the first in their respective cities. We 
implemented the U.S. Environmental also certified our space in Chicago. 
Protection Agency’s new ENERGY In 2020, Mastercard became the 
STAR Tenant Space program as first technology company to receive 
part of our commitment to green the Green Lease Leaders Gold-level 
buildings. In 2020, our San Francisco recognition.  
Nearly 90% of our global workspace 
meets regional or international green certification standards. 02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG 
Data centers 
Two-thirds of our owned data centers have on-site renewable energy, in keeping with our 100% renewable energy commitment. Continual upgrades and new energy-saving projects help us meet or exceed our targets in all our owned spaces. We monitor power-use effectiveness levels for our operated data centers, and in 2020 we began monitoring and gathering data at our co-locations — facilities where Mastercard rents  
space for services and other computing hardware but does not manage  
the operations. 
38 8,066 
8.3% 
3,146 
3.2% 86,162 
88.5% We continued to use 100% 
renewable electricity across our global operations in 2020, which will support our efforts to achieve net zero by 2050. Mastercard joined RE100 , the global corporate renewable 
energy initiative, to reinforce and formalize our commitment to using 100% renewable energy. RENEWABLE ENERGY 
We are committed, where 
appropriate, to investing in new renewable energy projects that bring more power to the grids on which we operate. For example, Mastercard has entered into long-term renewable energy arrangements in key countries that will contribute to our global net-zero ambitions, and where possible will provide ancillary co-benefits, such as the creation of pollinator habitats. While we also use unbundled 
renewable energy credits as part of our approach, we are focused on reducing our use of these types of credits over time. Mastercard purchases Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) through verified sources to ensure that the RECs we buy are the highest-quality credits available. We also purchase, when 
appropriate, renewable energy in the countries in which we operate in accordance with RE100 guidelines in an effort to place renewable energy on the grids on which we operate. 
RENEWABLE LOAD BREAKDOWN 
2020 
MWH 
Renewable energy credits 
On-site renewables 
Direct renewable procurement 
39 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Environmental Stewardship
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
ESG Mastercard has received an “A” rating for 
Supplier Engagement from CDP since 2018. 2020  KPIs 
83% of our global procurement 
spend invited to report to the CDP 
58% responded 
51% have approved science-based targets* 
84% reported Scope 1 and 2 emissions* 
46% reported Scope 3 emissions* 
40% allocated emissions to Mastercard* 
22% identified opportunities 
to collaborate* 
* Percentage of those responded. 
40 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Environmental Stewardship
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   SUPPLIER 
ENGAGEMENT 
Taking an innovative and 
collaborative approach to supplier sustainability has made Mastercard a leader in the field, as demonstrated by the “A” rating for Supplier Engagement we’ve maintained since 2018 from CDP . On average 
for the past few years, the emissions associated with our supply chain have amounted to more than 70% of our total carbon footprint. As such, continued support for setting and achieving GHG goals is being provided to suppliers. 
We’re supporting them in several 
ways. Sustainability requirements are now included in the onboarding process for suppliers, as well as in all proposal requests and supplier contracts. We have committed to engaging directly with specific suppliers who account for the majority of our supply-chain GHG emissions — in 2020, we identified and invited suppliers who collectively were contributing 86% of our supply-chain GHG emissions to report to the CDP . Our proprietary Environmental 
Development Initiative offers resource 
ESG materials, best practices and direct dialogue between our Environmental Sustainability Team and supply-chain partners, with the goal of helping big and small companies improve their environmental sustainability. 
Carbon accounting 
Mastercard asked our capital projects provider to collaborate with a sustainability consultant in 2020 to better understand the carbon impacts of our global real estate projects. The consultant analyzed the embedded carbon in hundreds of procured materials. The findings will be used to strengthen the sustainability requirements of our procurement standards and reduce our supply-chain emissions. These collaborative efforts will grow in number and scope as we move toward our net-zero goal. Mastercard’s commitment to 
eliminating damaging plastic waste and reducing our employee carbon footprint in the workplace remains strong, despite significant challenges 
brought on by the pandemic. We held several events to engage our employees, including a virtual Earth Week in April 2020, with daily activities tailored to address COVID challenges. 
In 2020, before the pandemic, 
we set our waste-diversion goal at 85% across our owned sites, with an eventual goal of zero waste in our owned facilities in the U.S. Although office waste dropped markedly during the lockdown, we were forced to return to single-use plastics for the health and safety of our workforce. As a result, we fell short of our goal, with only 73% of global waste in owned facilities diverted from landfills. EMPLOYEE 
ENGAGEMENT 
Our work in other areas was more 
successful in 2020. We continued to 
recycle 100% of our electronic waste. Eight sites across North America held personal protective equipment (PPE) recycling drives via TerraCycle to mitigate waste from single-use masks and gloves. More than 56,000 pounds of used furniture was donated or recycled to schools and nonprofit organizations. 
Work-from-home emissions 
During the pandemic, employees were not commuting, nor were they traveling for business, thereby reducing Scope 3 emissions. While Mastercard does quantify emissions from commuting, we have not yet quantified work-from-home 
emissions. We are developing an estimation methodology, but we do not anticipate modifying our 2025 SBTi-approved goals as a result. 
41 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Environmental Stewardship
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 ESG We have embedded sustainability 
into the fabric of our business, and it is reflected in various products and services we now offer globally. 
In January 2020, we formed the 
Priceless Planet Coalition, with the commitment to regrow 100 million trees in Earth’s most vulnerable forests to maximize carbon capture for climate benefit, restore wildlife habitat, and provide financial opportunities for local 
communities and indigenous people. Membership had expanded to 40 companies by the end of 2020. As of May 2021, we are proud to say that our partner total is now nearly 60. We are activating our technology, 
expertise, global partners and network of nearly 3 billion consumer and corporate cardholders to take collective action to preserve the environment. Environmentally
conscious solutions Informing  consumers about their 
personal impact on the environment 
Equipping  consumers with 
environmentally friendly card 
materials Encouraging  consumers to make 
mindful spending choices 
Empowering  consumers to 
contribute to nature-based 
solutions Mastercard selected the global 
environmental organizations 
Conservation International and World Resources Institute as our forestry partners to lead the mobilization and coordination of tree-planting efforts. 
With the help of these organizations, and supported by an independent advisory council, all restoration efforts under the Priceless Planet Coalition will adopt and adhere to rigorous science-based best practices for project selection, implementation and monitoring. Our first project commitments are to restore landscapes in Kenya, Brazil and Australia, with restoration activity taking place throughout 2021. 
42 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Environmental Stewardship
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ESG We’re leveraging our partnerships 
and global infrastructure investments to make environmental impact education accessible to more people worldwide. Mastercard’s own studies, 
and those of independent researchers, have found that consumers are increasingly concerned about their individual environmental impact but may not know how to measure it. Nearly 70% of consumers we surveyed in 2020 said it’s important to preserve the earth’s resources. They also want to understand how their behavior affects the planet. 
To help inform consumers of their 
environmental impact, we introduced a carbon calculator, powered by theDoconomy Åland Index, that integrates seamlessly with the Mastercard network. It allows us to calculate the carbon footprint of any purchase made using a Mastercard-branded card. Our advanced application programming interface (API) relays this information to the issuer, who in turn shares it with consumers. Mastercard provides consumers with tools to take real action to improve their environmental impact, because our vision doesn’t end with education. We’re providing insights 
through our products — like maintaining a diet consisting of more plant-based foods and installing energy-efficient household facilities — that can help influence and improve consumers’ sustainable behavior. Mastercard launched the Sustainable Materials Directory in July 2020, encouraging wider adoption of certified, eco-friendly materials by card manufacturers in order to equip consumers with more sustainably produced cards. The directory offers 
financial institutions resources to learn more about those alternatives, connects them to card manufacturers, and ultimately enables them to enhance their sustainability initiatives with a systemic change to their supply chains. 
In 2020, the number of sustainably 
made cards produced grew by more than 70% over 2019, demonstrating a drive toward global adoption. Mastercard has approved 42 different card products to replace first-use polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic, including recycled, recyclable, bio-sourced and biodegradable materials. More than 80 financial institutions have issued the environmentally friendly cards, which are made by 26 vendors so far. INFORMING CONSUMERS ENCOURAGING AND EMPOWERING CONSUMERS EQUIPPING CONSUMERS 
We also enable consumers to 
contribute to solutions that benefit our environment, such as linking rewards programs to the Priceless Planet Coalition’s work. Cardholders may direct their reward points to Priceless Planet, with the value of their points being directed to our forest restoration projects using Mastercard’s rewards platform technology and Give with Rewards. In addition, issuers and consumers can use the Mastercard Donate platform to facilitate donations toward reforestation. 
Over 10 million cards have been produced 
for issuance since 2018 with approved sustainable materials using Mastercard’s 
Sustainable Card Materials Directory. 
43 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Environmental Stewardship
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ESG Mastercard’s deep commitment to 
ethical operations and legal compliance shapes every interaction with our employees, stakeholders and customers. Our operations are built around decency, integrity and respect. 05 ETHICAL AND 
RESPONSIBLE STANDARDS 
44 44 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
 
 
 
 
   
 
ESG Our Chief Compliance Officer 
(CCO) leads and oversees our 
Ethics and Compliance system, which encompasses a broad set of integrated programs. 
The CCO reports functionally to 
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, and administratively to the Chief Administrative Officer. The CCO provides updates to the Audit Committee quarterly or more frequently, as needed. Reports cover performance matters such as the status of investigations, new initiatives, training programs and results of assurance activities. 
Every Mastercard employee is 
enrolled in a mandatory, in-depth curriculum of online compliance training, which includes more than a dozen courses on subjects such as the Code of Conduct, anti-money-laundering measures, trade sanctions, privacy compliance, information security, preventing insider trading, and workplace conduct, including sexual 
harassment and discrimination. 
Mastercard participates in the 
Risk Clarity survey, conducted by a third party and designed to take the pulse of our ethics and accountability culture globally. The survey assesses 
In 2020, we updated the Code, adding language regarding Mastercard’s commitment to respecting and promoting human rights  and our 
Data Responsibility Principles . 
We require that our CEO and other 
senior officers abide by a Supplemental Code of Ethics , which we refreshed 
in 2020, that reflects our heightened expectations for them to lead by example, particularly in avoiding 
conflicts of interest. Our Mastercard Ethics Helpline , 
hosted by an independent third party, is a confidential, around-the-clock service for reporting activity suspected of violating the law, our Code of Conduct or any other company policy. We promptly investigate all concerns through our relevant internal investigative functions, and we bring in external support such as outside counsel as needed. To increase transparency regarding our investigative process and associated outcomes, twice a year we provide our employees with a Summary of Investigative Activity that contains investigative metrics and selected anonymized case profiles. 
To encourage the use of the Helpline 
and other avenues for raising ethical and legal concerns, we have a Non-Retaliation Policy. Anyone found in breach of the Non-Retaliation Policy will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. We have made innovative advancements aimed at preventing our products, services and technologies from being used for laundering money, financing terrorist 
operations or evading economic sanctions. We comply with applicable 
laws and regulations and implement risk-based anti-money laundering policies, procedures and controls. These include Know Your Customer — or KYC — processes, which are applied to all customers before and during the business relationship. Our risk-based sanctions-compliance program includes policies, procedures and controls that are designed to prevent us from having business dealings with prohibited countries, regions, governments, individuals and entities. Our approach to 
ethical operations starts with our Code of Conduct , which is 
offered in multiple languages and is certified annually by our employees and our Board of Directors. Ethics and 
compliance WORKING TO 
ENSURE COMPLIANCE 
ETHICS HELPLINE & NON-RETALIATION POLICY KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER an organization’s culture of integrity 
by measuring the attributes that most strongly indicate reduced risk of misconduct. Our employees’ responses are anonymous, and are benchmarked against other global companies that participate in the survey. We use these results to drive improvements that reinforce our ethical culture. 
45 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards    
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESG Mastercard is committed to 
complying with all applicable laws and regulations. We are subject to 
an increasingly rigorous landscape of regulatory oversight and compliance that is further affected by the diversification of our products and services. 
Mastercard takes reasonable steps 
to implement policies, procedures and programs designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulatory obligations. We coordinate globally while acting locally, and leverage our expertise and relationships to manage the effects of regulation on Mastercard. Mastercard is committed to a fully competitive marketplace and to complying with antitrust and competition laws globally. We encourage open and dynamic markets that drive innovation and value for our company and our customers. By focusing on creating innovative products and services, we attract and retain those customers. 
We continue to enhance Mastercard’s 
Antitrust and Competition Law Compliance program through risk assessments and mitigation strategies. We emphasize the importance of this topic by training all employees, providing simple guidance documents, and ensuring that controls are in place. The Antitrust and Competition Law Policy, including translations into 12 languages, is reviewed and updated annually. 
REGULATORY 
COMPLIANCE ANTITRUST AND COMPETITION LAW 
We comply with anti-corruption 
laws around the world, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act. As part of our comprehensive anti-corruption compliance program, we study external enforcement actions 
and internal business operations, and use what we learn as input into our risk assessment that guides our procedures and the implementation of internal controls. We train all employees on our anti-corruption and related policies, procedures and controls. We have also built a monitoring program that includes the latest testing technologies, such as artificial intelligence, to help spot and remediate noncompliance within our global operations to ensure that our controls are operating effectively. ANTI-CORRUPTION 
46 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESG Mastercard’s Franchise enables 
value exchanges between parties through a collaborative and secure payments ecosystem. Our core commitment is to enable consumers and businesses to access their financial assets and engage in commerce, expanding their liberty, 
connectivity and individual agency. While we respect the rights of individuals to transact privately with others, such transactions must be lawful. Our Franchise requires anticipating threats and combating fraud. We hold all stakeholders in our network to high standards. We require that our stakeholders avoid engaging in or facilitating any activity that is illegal or that damages the goodwill, reputation or integrity of Mastercard and, if such activity is detected, we work with our partners to take action. Stakeholders may also raise and report grievances to the Franchise function, and the team will investigate and take appropriate action. FRANCHISE 
The Franchise works to ensure 
a balanced ecosystem where all participants may benefit and retain the ability to differentiate against their competition. We achieve this through the following key activities: 
Participant onboarding 
Defining ecosystem roles and responsibilities for each participant and ensuring that they meet the necessary prerequisites to partake in and contribute to the network. 
Operating standards 
Defining operational, technical and financial standards to which network participants must adhere. Identifying changes and emerging roles in the ecosystem to achieve efficiency, quality output and a high level of performance, while reducing confusion and/or failure to comply with industry regulations. 
Safety and security 
Establishing the core principles 
essential to network participants, including safeguarding consumer protections and integrity so as to increase confidence in any transactions on the network. Responsible stewardship Setting standards for performance to support ecosystem growth and optimization to improve quality over time. Protecting the ecosystem with proactive monitoring to ensure participant adherence to operating standards. 
Issue resolution 
Addressing financial or nonfinancial 
disputes in a timely and orderly fashion that benefits the entire global network of participants. 
We also work with law enforcement 
and nongovernmental organizations by investigating referrals for illegal activity and actively participating in various forums, including: 
• Child Exploitation: Internet Watch 
Foundation (IWF) and the National 
and International Centers for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) 
• Intellectual Property: International 
Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition (IACC) 
• Pharmaceuticals: Center for Safe 
Internet Pharmacies (CSIP) 
In 2021, we extended 
existing Specialty Merchant Registration requirements. 
The banks that connect merchants to our 
network will need to certify that the seller of adult content has effective controls in place to monitor, block and, where necessary, take down all illegal content. 
47 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ESG Privacy and 
data protection 
The following data responsibility 
principles guide how data can be 
leveraged in a responsible and secure way to drive innovation while protecting individuals. Central to our data innovation strategy is the continued advancement of our Artificial Intelligence (AI) capabilities. We have established an AI 
Governance framework to ensure 
that the impact from our use of AI continues to be beneficial and aligned with our data responsibility principles. 
48 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
      
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
 Security & Privacy Integrity ESG 
OUR PRIVACY COMMITMENT 
Anorganization’s datapractices 
m
ustbeguidedbythe rightsofindividuals 01 
YOU OWN IT 
02 
YOU CONTROL IT 
03 
YOU BENEFIT FROM 
THE USE OF IT 
04 
WE PROTECT IT Mastercard’s dedication to decency extends to how we handle data. We believe that privacy and data protection are fundamental human 
Innovation rights, and this belief informs all of our business decisions, including how 
Accountability we handle the personal information of our employees, customers and cardholders. Our long-standing 
commitment  to privacy, data 
responsibility and security has established Mastercard as a trusted partner. 
With the global pandemic, life has 
become increasingly digital, with the potential for more health-related information collected and shared. As the amount and types of generated data increase, so too does the complexity of ensuring that personal information is handled responsibly and securely. 
Our responsible data practices 
prioritize privacy as a key innovation enabler. At Mastercard, developing competitive products and services goes hand-in-hand with earning and cultivating the trust that’s been placed in us. 
Transparency & Control Social Impact   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. You own it 
We believe your personal information is just that — personal. Individuals own their personal information, and have a right to understand how, when and where it is used and shared. We explain clearly how we handle personal information in our Global Privacy Notice , which is 
complemented by specific notices for certain products and activities. 
2. You control it 
We believe that individuals have the right to understand and control how their data is handled. Anyone — at any time and at no cost — can opt out of having their personal information used for marketing, data analytics and other programs using our simple online system. We strive to use personal information only in a legitimate, fair and inclusive manner, with full respect for each person’s choices. 
Furthermore, individuals have the 
right to access, correct, modify or move their personal information via our online portal, which is currently 
available for all users located in Brazil, the European Union, and the United States, and will soon be accessible worldwide. 3. You benefit from the use of it We believe that an individual’s personal information should be used to make their life easier and richer. We are committed to responsible data-driven innovation, both within our organization and as a significant player in the data ecosystem. For instance, Mastercard has developed a suite of Open Banking Solutions  to 
add value to our business partners and allow people to benefit from innovative payment services, while keeping individuals at the center of all we do. We regularly work with policymakers and industry bodies across the globe to enact strong privacy protections for individuals, while still enabling businesses to operate globally and use data for responsible innovation. 
4. We protect it 
We believe that privacy must be embedded in the design of every one of our products and solutions. We innovate by placing the individual at the center, protecting and respecting their privacy and personal information along the way. This is cutting-edge product innovation that starts in the design process at ideation and moves through development and delivery. We limit the data that we collect to what’s needed to get the job done, and we look for ways to encrypt or de-identify personal information while making sure each product is still convenient and easy to use. Privacy by Design also means we 
are working to protect and respect 
02 
human rights and freedoms more generally. For instance, we monitor and seek to correct for bias, discrimination and other potential risks or harms to individuals or groups, and we promote fairness, inclusion and diversity across our data practices. 
01 
03 
04 
05 
ESG 
As an example of Privacy by Design, 
our Mastercard: The Shift to Digital 
leveraged aggregated and anonymized data to create actionable insights in response to the pandemic. These insights helped governments and businesses to navigate the shift to digital payments, minimize the impact of the pandemic, and plan for economic recovery, while fully protecting people’s privacy and personal information. 
As another example, Mastercard 
announced the new Enhanced 
Contactless  (Ecos) specifications in 
January 2021, applying the latest quantum-resistant technologies to developing the next generation of contactless payments. Ecos leverages 
new technology to deliver enhanced privacy, security and trust when account information is shared between the card or digital wallet and the checkout terminal. Ethical and Responsible Standards 
49 GLOBAL DATA 
RESPONSIBILITY IMPERATIVE ACCOUNTABILITY 
DATA GOVERNANCE 
Mastercard’s Global Data 
Responsibility Imperative  is a 
public commitment to ethical 
and responsible data practices that enable data innovation while honoring individuals, their data rights and the trust they place in Mastercard. 
The Imperative’s six principles 
are designed to enable us and other like-minded organizations to optimally navigate the challenges and opportunities of the digital economy, so it works for everyone, everywhere. These principles are meant to complement — and not be a substitute for — regulatory compliance. This underscores Mastercard’s belief that responsible data practices are sustainable business practices. We believe an individual’s data must be kept secure and used responsibly. We employ rigorous standards to ensure the protection, safety and security of data within Mastercard and with all our partners and vendors. 
Mastercard complies with all 
regional and local regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) in the European 
Union, the Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados (LGPD) in Brazil and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). In particular, we’ve embraced the GDPR as an opportunity to enhance our global data practices by extending its high consumer protection standards to all users. 
Twice a year, Mastercard’s security, 
privacy and information practices are reviewed by United States financial regulators for compliance with the requirements of U.S. financial privacy laws. Mastercard is also one of the very few companies that have implemented Binding Corporate Rules  in Europe and 
achieved APEC Cross-Border Privacy 
Rules certifications . 
In addition, we actively participate 
in privacy and data thought-leadership groups and regulatory expert groups around the globe, including the OECD’s privacy expert group and its Network of Experts on AI, the World Economic Forum Taskforce on Data Intermediaries, the EU Agency for Cybersecurity (ENISA) AI Expert Group, the EU Commission Expert Group on Business-to-Government Data Sharing, the Singapore Data Protection Advisory Committee, and the IEEE Steering Committee on AI Risk Impact Assessments. The Board of Directors, including the Audit 
Committee, and senior management are updated annually, or more frequently as needed, by several of Mastercard’s senior executives who are responsible for driving our companywide commitment to best practices in privacy, data governance and data security. 
Chief Data Officer 
Oversees Mastercard’s efforts to maintain a responsible, ethical enterprise data program that adheres to our high standards for data quality, curation and governance. 
Chief Privacy Officer 
Leads our compliance with worldwide laws and regulations regarding how we collect, use, share, store and transfer data, and manages our relevant engagements with regulators and policymakers. Data Protection Officer Leads our Global Privacy Compliance Assurance program to ensure that Mastercard continues to adhere to global General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) standards and local privacy requirements. Additionally, the Data Protection Officer oversees the protection of personal data and the handling of privacy requests from individuals to exercise their rights. 
Chief Security Officer 
Develops and oversees the programs, policies and controls we have implemented to reduce and prevent logical and physical risks to our people, intellectual assets and tangible property. 
50 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 ESG 51 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
PREENT IDENTIFY Safety and security 
As societies digitize at an accelerated pace, 
cyberattacks have become increasingly prevalent. As a result, cybersecurity has become 
ESG 
a prerequisite for trust in our economies, fueling the need for security programs and solutions. 
V 
SECURING OUR 
ECOSYSTEM 
In the digital world, each digital 
connection and interaction is another point of vulnerability, an opportunity for criminals, a potential fraud incident. In such a boundless digital environment, we are taking steps to secure against cyberattacks and build trust with our customers and consumers. Our world-class portfolio of global cyber capabilities adopts a multi-layered approach designed to make transactions and interactions more convenient, more seamless, and more secure every step of the way. 
EXPERIENCE DETECT Prevent: 
Solutions and services to prevent fraud and secure infrastructure, devices and data. 
NuDetect 
NuDetect improves authorization decisions by mitigating fraud before a purchase is processed. It leverages passive biometrics and behavioral analysis to distinguish authentic users from potential fraudsters, based on their online, mobile app and smartphone interactions. Every year, 
NuDetect monitors hundreds of billions of data points worldwide. 
Tokenization 
Our tokenization platform, Mastercard Digital Enablement Services (MDES), 
reduces fraud by creating dynamic, unique card numbers, or tokens, that can be used for mobile point-of-sale transactions or purchases made in-app or online. Mastercard has continued to scale MDES and MDES for Merchants. In 2020, we processed over 7 billion transactions through MDES, six times more than in 2018. Identify: Services used to identify genuine consumers, devices and companies. 
Identity Check 
Mastercard Identity Check reinvents online payment authentication and provides consumers with an optimal user experience when shopping 
on any connected device. Next-generation authentication helps reduce fraud, false declines and unnecessary friction — meeting the need for simple and secure payments. Our network facilitates rich data exchange and authenticates billions of secure transactions every year. 
Digital Identity 
Our Digital Identity solution enables consumers to prove their identity easily and securely while maintaining control of what personal data elements are shared. Our solution is based on a consumer-centric framework that provides guiding principles, promotes trust and understanding, and restores control of personal data to the individual. Detect: Solutions that aim to stop cyberattacks, reduce fraud and detect weaknesses. 
Safety Net 
Safety Net, an AI-powered global catastrophic cyberattack detection solution, monitors transactions continuously, screening hundreds of millions of transactions daily. By instantly isolating systemic threats and blocking fraudulent transactions, Safety Net limits the financial and reputational damage of large-scale fraud. It stopped more than $10 billion in cyberattacks in 2020. 
Decision Intelligence 
Decision Intelligence uses AI and Mastercard’s global transaction data to enable smart transaction approval in real time. The platform distills thousands of data points, such as account spending, device information and fraud profiles, into a single decision score that helps issuers fine-tune their authorization decisions. It detected fraudulent transactions of approximately $3 billion in 2020. Experience: Services enhancing physical and digital experiences to grow commerce. 
Contactless 
The contactless technology provides the simplicity of a “tap and go” experience, along with a platform for safe digital payments on smartphones and other enabled devices. In response to COVID-19, we introduced higher contactless no-PIN limits globally to support the increased use. We saw strong acceleration of contactless transactions in 2020, as more than 80 markets grew contactless penetration by at least 10% year-over-year, driven by consumer demand for increased speed, safety and cleanliness at checkout. 
Rapid dispute resolution 
Mastercard’s Ethoca identifies problems before they enter the chargeback process. With nearly 14,000 participating merchants and banks, Ethoca runs one of the largest global collaboration networks in the world, helping businesses fight fraud, prevent disputes and improve the consumer experience. In 2020, Ethoca prevented over 9.5 million chargebacks. 
EXAMPLES OF KEY SOLUTIONS 
52 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ESG Mastercard’s core security programs 
protect our systems and reduce risk with a range of tools, including an enterprisewide vulnerability management program and specialized infrastructure that strengthens our physical and virtual systems. We are 
actively identifying, responding to, and managing threats, both cyber and physical, reducing risk and enabling our business partners to focus on our ability to operate successfully in any logical environment or physical locality. Our Security Threat and Response Management serves three purposes: 
• Vulnerability Management  works 
with various lines of business in a 
collaborative effort to provide a comprehensive, integrated approach to vulnerability management that will substantially improve our capability to define, detect and quickly and efficiently mitigate or remediate 
vulnerabilities within our environment. 
• Enterprise Resilience  reduces 
Mastercard’s risk by creating a global culture of preparedness through education, awareness, planning and practice while fostering partnerships to work together efficiently when adversity strikes. SECURING MASTERCARD 
• Security Event Management protects all Mastercard assets, physical and logical, and ensures that business across the globe can be conducted safely and securely. This is achieved through a centralized aggregation point (Fusion Center) where intelligence is gathered and collated and a coordinated situational response is formulated; through the constant monitoring of world events and our network (via our Security Operations Center) to ensure swift prevention, detection and mitigation of threats to our environment and its people, facilities and events; and through advanced techniques for investigating and responding to global threats across Mastercard. In addition to our extensive cybersecurity solution suite, Mastercard drives actions, behaviors and technologies that make our ecosystem more secure as part of a global response that is coordinated and collaboration-based. 
These efforts include: 
• Innovating with governments to 
secure our ecosystem. 
• Innovating with commercial partners, including developing cutting-edge, low-cost biometric cards. 
• Shaping society’s thinking on cutting-edge topics with programs on AI, cyber, and digital identity. 
• Shaping industry thinking through programs such as the Virtual Cyber and Risk Summit. 
• Partnering to organize cyber education through collaborations such as the Oxford Cyber Futures online program. 
As members of the broader global community, we are working to harmonize and unify security standards in the digital economy. 
• We promote cross-border 
connectivity and data flows through our work with the Global Data Alliance. 
• We drive alignment on industry-leading best practices and standards around current and emerging technologies such as EMV, Contactless, Ecos, IoT, Digital ID, and AI. For example, we announced our model for digital identity in 2019, and at the heart of this model are our 10 Principles of Digital Identity, which focus on data rights, ownership, confidentiality, 
consent, and other factors. 
• We work with the CyberPeace Institute and Better Identity Coalition to establish globally accepted cybersecurity practices. 
• We seek out opportunities to work in close concert with the G-7 , D-10, G-20 and NIST. 
• We are co-founders of the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council (PCI Council). 
53 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 ESG Mastercard Fusion Center 
The Mastercard Fusion Center leads and synchronizes Mastercard global resources to anticipate, identify and mitigate fraud and cyber and physical security threats in order to protect Mastercard and contribute to the financial ecosystem’s security. Our operations are modeled on government and law enforcement centers — business teams from across Mastercard and external partners work together to improve regular information-sharing and crisis response. 
The integration of multiple teams 
into the Fusion Center enables faster detection and prevention of threat incidents and faster response time to mitigate incidents through efficient cross-organization 
collaboration. In 2020, we bolstered the preparedness of our Fusion Center by adding more business units and our European Cyber Resilience Center (ECRC) in Belgium. The ECRC is a technological hub for collaboration between members of the public and private sectors and regulators to support resilience and combat cyber threats to the payments ecosystem in the region. The Fusion Center facilitated the 
annual Threatcasting workshop, which helps to identify potential threats for the next decade, and we collaborated with internal and external participants to assess how to disrupt, mitigate and recover from these predicted threats. 
Analysis and response 
Our security program is regularly audited by U.S. and international agencies, including on-site assessments. We also host frequent customer assessments and penetration tests, both on-site and remotely. The methodology, and our resulting annual certifications, satisfies multiple industry-recognized 
frameworks, including those of: 
• The U.S. National Institute of 
Standards and Technology’s (NIST’s) Special Publication 800-115: “Technical Guide to Information 
Security Testing and Assessment” 
• Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) methodology 
• Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards 
• Penetration Testing Execution 
Standard (PTES) 
• International Organization for Standardization (ISO/IEC 27000) 
54 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
  
  
    
 
  ESG Ethical and Responsible Standards In recognition of how interconnected 
the world is and how we contribute to that interconnectivity, we expect our employees and partners of all kinds — from suppliers and customers to peer organizations — to share our commitment to respect and promote human rights. This includes seeking to 
address violations of human rights within the spheres of our work, while harnessing the power of our network to promote human rights around the world. 
In 2019, we undertook an assessment 
to help identify and prioritize the human rights most correlated with our business, where we have the greatest leverage and to which we can contribute the greatest value. The assessment, which we conducted with the assistance of a third party, incorporated the guidance provided by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The results informed our Board-approved Human 
Rights Statement  in April 2020. Human rights Our approach to data Mastercard places the individual at the heart of our commitment to data privacy and protection. We conduct regular impact assessments of our practices to ensure that we mitigate any risks to people’s privacy, security and human rights. 
Our network 
We partner with others to prevent our products, services and technologies from being used in furtherance of human rights abuses, including money laundering, terrorist financing and evasion of sanctions. We also work with others to monitor, detect and prevent transactions that are illegal, such as abuse of intellectual property rights, child exploitation, illegal internet gambling and illicit pharmaceutical sales. 
Our people 
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace, free from discrimination, harassment and retaliation by employees or our suppliers, contingent workers or business partners. All Mastercard employees receive training on these policies and on our expectations for a culture of decency and respect. 
Our supply chain 
Our suppliers are contractually bound by standards of ethical conduct when dealing with workers, their suppliers, customers and other third parties. They are contractually required to meet or exceed our high standards for privacy and security, and we conduct periodic reviews of our systems and theirs to ensure compliance. FOUNDATIONAL PRINCIPLES KEY AREAS OF IMPACT 
Culture of decency Mastercard’s commitment to human rights is founded in our belief that we must bring basic human decency to everything we do. Decency and mutual respect are the foundation for the kinds of relationships that drive innovation, which sets the stage for open-minded and thoughtful collaboration with others. Decency helps ensure that we challenge perspectives, not other people, in a respectful and direct manner, to achieve the best outcomes. 
Stakeholder engagement 
Mastercard’s job includes listening, making connections and developing solutions that are relevant and sustainable. We welcome the views of our diverse stakeholders, both internal and external, who help identify the human rights issues that are most salient to our business and help us achieve the biggest impacts. Connecting people to opportunity Both our business strategy and our sense of social responsibility push us to ensure that people and organizations have access to our networks, tools and solutions. We do this by fostering inclusive growth; working toward financial inclusion; partnering with 
other organizations; and working to support more socially, commercially and environmentally sustainable solutions across all our work. 
Promoting good governance and 
respect for individual choice We believe upholding the highest standards of ethics and responsibility is crucial to being successful. We have long maintained a strong commitment to ethics, compliance, transparent financial 
reporting and strong internal controls. We strictly adhere to the rule of law and do not accept use of our services for illegal activity by our customers. Our respect for law creates a reliable standard for enforcement and maintains a balance between protecting people’s human rights and protecting people’s rights from government infringement. 
55 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
ESG Mastercard is committed to 
sourcing responsibly and using a diverse set of suppliers. Our 
Supplier Code of Conduct  details 
our expectations and requirements regarding child labor, freedom of association, compensation, working hours and conditions, discrimination, health and safety, environmental sustainability, and more. We also outline the steps Mastercard takes to ensure that our business and supply chains are free from slavery in our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement , and that 
they respect human rights in our Human Rights Statement . Responsible sourcing 
and supplier diversity 
Mastercard is incorporating inclusion 
and diversity throughout our global 
supply chain. We are building strong, ongoing relationships with small and/ or diverse businesses through our initiative. As part of our In Solidarity commitments, we pledged to increase our annual spending with Black suppliers by more than 70%, to $100 million annually, by 2025. 
We also encourage our prime, 
direct suppliers, also known as Tier 1, to establish their own diverse supply chains. We require participating prime, direct suppliers to report information and data on their use of small and diverse suppliers, which are considered Tier 2. Our Tier 1 and Tier 2 spending with diverse suppliers was more than 12% of our total U.S.-based spending in 2020. 
$100 million 
We pledged to increase our annual 
spending with Black suppliers by more than 70% by 2025. 
56 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
Ethical and Responsible Standards
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESG    
 
 
 
 
 
   
 “Sustainability has long been embedded 
into the DNA of Mastercard as we 
recognize the vital role it plays in the future success of our business. This report demonstrates how we lead with decency, invest in innovation, build trusted partnerships, and lead through action, all in pursuit of a more inclusive, sustainable world where everyone can 
reach their potential.” 
Kristina Kloberdanz 
Chief Sustainability Officer, Mastercard 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG 
57    
 
 
   
  
 
       
   
  
  
        
 
 
     
    
      
     
 
      
  
     
 
         
     
   
  
    
  
  
     
     
      
     
  
      
 
    
   
         
 
 
   
      
    
       
       
       
 
 
 
      
         
       
     
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
      
       
     
         
         
  
       
    
         
   
  
  
   
 
     
     
      
   
   
   
     
    
    
     
  
 
      
 
   
    
    
    
        01 ASSURANCE LETTERS 
VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 
To: The S takeholders of MasterCard 
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by MasterCard for the period st ated below. This verificatio n opinion declaration applies t o the 
related information included within the scope of work described below. 
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of MasterCard. MasterCard is responsible f or the 
preparation and f air pr esentation of the GHG statement in accord ance with the criteria. Apex’ s sole responsibility was 
to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the underlying systems 
and processes use d to col lect, a nalyze, and rev iew the information. Apex is responsible for expressing an opinion on 
the GHG statement based on the verification. Verification activities applied in a limited level of assurance verification 
are less extensive in nature, tim ing, and ex tent than in a reas onable lev el of assurance verification. 
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification: 
• Operatio nal Control 
• Global 
Types of GHGs : CO 2, N2O, CH 4, HFCs 
GHG Emiss ions Stat emen t: 
• Scope 1: 3,221 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent 
• Scope 2 (Location-Based) : 52,538 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent 
• Scope 2 (Market -Based): 268 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent 
• Scope 3: 
Purchased Goods & Services , Capital Goods, and Upstream Transporta tion and Distribution : 344,076 metric 
tons of C O2 equivalent 
Fuel- and Energy -Related Activities: 6,485 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent 
Waste Generated in Operations: 486 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent 
Business Travel (air and rail travel) : 7,373 metric tons of CO 2 equivalent 
Employee Commuting: 7,723 metri c tons of CO 2 equivalent 
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions assertion were in most cases 
historical in nature and in some cases were estimated . 
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some cases estimated rather 
than historical in nature. 
Period covered by GHG emissions verification: 
• January 1, 2020 to De cember 31 , 2020 
Criter ia against which verification was conducted: 
• World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustai nable Development (WBC SD) 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standa rd (Scope 1 and 2) 
Page 2 
• WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (Scope 3) 
Referenc e Standa rd: 
• ISO 140 64-3: 2019 - Greenhous e gases -- Part 3: S pecification wi th guidance for the valida tion and 
verification of greenhouse g as state ment s 
Level of Assurance and Qualifications : 
• Limited 
• This verification used a materiality thresho ld of ±5% for aggr egate er rors in sampled data for ea ch of the 
above indic ators 
GHG Verification Methodology: 
Evidence-gathering procedures included , but were not limited to: 
• Interviews with relevant personnel of MasterCard and their consultant ; 
• Review of documentary evidenc e produce d by MasterCard ; 
• Review of MasterCard data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis 
and r eview of information used to determine GHG emissions; and 
• Audit of sample s of data used by MasterCard to determine GHG emissions. 
Verification Opinion: 
Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions stateme nt shown 
above: 
• is not mate rially correc t and is not a fair re presentation of the GHG emissions d ata and in formatio n; and 
• has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard ( Scope 1 and 2 ), and WRI/WBCSD Green house Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain  
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3) . 
It is our opinion that MasterCard has established appropr iate systems for the collection, aggregation and an alysis o f 
quantitative data for determination of the se GHG emissions for t he stated period and bou ndaries. 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 
Apex is an independe nt professional service s company that specializes in Hea lth, Safety, Social and En vironmental 
management s ervices including as surance with over 30 years history in providin g these services. 
No member of the verification team has a business relationship wi th MasterCard , its Direct ors or Managers beyond 
that required of this assignme nt. W e conducted this ver ification independently and to our knowled ge there ha s been 
no con flict of interest. 
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to mainta in high ethical standar ds among staff in their 
day-to-day business act ivities. 
The v erification team has extensive experience in conducting assura nce over environmental, social, ethical and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experien ce in this field and an 
excellen t understanding of Apex ’s standard methodology fo r the verification of greenhouse gas emiss ions data. 02 
03 
04 
05 
Page 3 
ESG 
Attestation: 
Mary E. Armstrong -Friberg, Lead Verifier David Reilly, Technical Reviewer 
Principal Consultant Principal Consultant 
Apex Comp anies,  LLC. Apex Comp anies,  LLC. 
Cleveland, Ohio Santa Ana, California 
March 11 , 2021 
This verification sta tement, including the opinion expressed he rein, is provided to MasterCard and is solely for the benefit of 
MasterCard in accor dance with the term s of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to CDP in order to 
satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure r equirements but withou t accepting or assuming any resp onsibility or lia bility on our part to CDP 
or to any oth er party who may have acces s to this statement. Assurance Letters 
58  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Mastercard is in a unique position to 
connect and power an inclusive, digital economy that benefits everyone, everywhere, by making transactions safe, simple, smart and accessible. By their nature, many of our programs and solutions are supportive of the SDGs, and we believe that it is important to continue to drive private-sector awareness, collaboration and action in this area. 
We are proud that through the 
power of our network, we are able to make real sustainable change by helping individuals, financial institutions, 
governments and businesses realize their greatest potential. SDG s EXAMPLES 
Mastercard was approved as a signatory of the UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs). From achieving pay equity in 2020 to supporting 
female small-business owners and startups, Mastercard is committed to gender balance  both inside and outside of Mastercard. External efforts 
included leading the 30% Club and Financial Alliance for Women, and partnering to advance gender equality with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and USAID. Internally, Mastercard unified parental leave and started publishing the global gender pay gap. 
Mastercard’s signature science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) program, Girls4Tech ™, reached its initial goal of educating 1 million 
girls. The program has a new and inspiring ambition to reach 5 million girls by 2025. The program, which launched in 2014, offers activities and 
curriculum built on global science and math standards. It incorporates Mastercard’s deep expertise in technology and innovation, enabling students to discover a range of STEM careers, such as fraud detective, data scientist and software engineer. 
Mastercard expanded its worldwide commitment to financial inclusion, pledging to bring a total of 1 billion people and 50 million micro and small 
businesses into the digital economy by 2025. As part of this effort, there will be a direct focus on providing 25 million women entrepreneurs with solutions that can help them grow their businesses. 
Mastercard has committed up to $300 million in the fight against COVID-19 , including $250 million over five years to provide small businesses with 
financial tools, technology, products and insights to help them survive and thrive. 
Mastercard is working with city and state leaders around the world, providing access to anonymized and aggregated data-driven insights free of 
charge, to help them assess the impact of COVID-19 on their communities and optimize their recovery plans. Mastercard’s City Possible program supported local responses to the COVID-19 pandemic with data insights, innovative aid distribution channels, and small-business support in places like Los Angeles and Madrid. Since debuting with just 16 founding members in November 2018, City Possible has now expanded to 220 city members and candidate cities. 
Our insights into trends and improving focus within key economic sectors such as tourism have informed government action on business and 
unemployment disbursements, recovery planning and targeted fiscal stimulus to encourage tourism spending. For example, we announced the launch of a four-year “ Partnership for the Digital Economy ,” covering various strategic areas of development in line with the French government’s strategic 
public policy regarding digitization and growth of the economy, including tourism and financial inclusion. Similar Digital Country Partnerships exist with Azerbaijan, the Czech Republic and Panama. Sustainable Development Goals 
Mastercard is working to mitigate the effects of climate change through our business directly and by mobilizing our trusted network. We’ve set a goal of reaching net-zero emissions  by 2050, which builds upon existing SBTi-approved greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goals. In light of these goals, we 
continue to use 100% renewable electricity across our global operations and support suppliers with their own GHG reductions. 
Launched in January 2020, the Priceless Planet Coalition  unites the efforts of consumers, financial institutions, merchants and cities to fight climate 
change through the restoration of 100 million trees over five years — together with climate science and forest restoration experts Conservation 
International and World Resources Institute. 
Through In Solidarity , a companywide initiative to promote equity and justice, we promised to enhance our partnerships with civil rights groups 
and community-based organizations in the U.S. For example, in partnership with the National Urban League, we launched the Entrepreneurship & Workforce Resource Partnership with a $5 million donation. The partnership will draw on Mastercard’s analytics and technology, Mastercard Labs and other resources to support 5,000 black entrepreneurs by 2025. 
The Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth and The Rockefeller Foundation announced data.org  as a platform for partnerships that will continue to 
build the field of data science for social impact. As part of the announcement, data.org launched a new $10 million impact challenge to crowdsource 
scalable and sustainable data science solutions for nonprofit, civic and government organizations. 
59  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
    
 
  
     
 
   
  TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) INDEX 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Governance 
Our Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee oversees 
sustainability matters, including those relating to environmental stewardship. A cross-functional team of executives in sustainability, facilities, enterprise risk management, enterprise resilience, legal, finance and sourcing work together to identify, assess and manage climate-related risks and opportunities. 
Strategy and risk management 
Preparing for and responding to climate-related risks and opportunities and helping our customers and communities develop the capacity to respond to future changes are key aspects of our business strategy. It will take time and considerable strategic thought to ensure that the actions we take today will create a more equitable, sustainable and resilient future for all. In 2020, we completed a qualitative scenario analysis to identify potential climate-related physical and transition risks and opportunities as our business and people transition to a low-carbon and adaptive economy. This analysis included multiple 
International Energy Agency (IEA) 
and Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) scenarios and time horizons to evaluate future states, noting that at this point it is not clear which one is the most likely. To assess the transition risks and opportunities for our market and business, we used high-, medium- and low-emission scenarios focused on five key regions — the United States, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia Pacific — across two time horizons, short-term (2025) and medium-term (2040). These time horizons roughly align with our GHG targets and consider near-term and long-term. To assess the physical impacts of climate change on certain facilities, including our global and regional headquarters, key data centers and key supplier locations, we evaluated potential threats to business-critical sites under future climate projections based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP). Risks were analyzed across several time horizons including a future mid-term projection (2035) and a future long-term projection (2060). This qualitative analysis of 12 sites is part of our broader process to evaluate threats and risk mitigation opportunities across our global operations, supply chain and revenue sources. Each of the 12 sites was examined by looking at seven potential risks resulting from the physical impacts of climate change. The RCP8.5 scenario was selected because it represents a business -
as-usual, worse-case scenario climate emissions trajectory model and provides an upper-boundary condition to support our analysis and risk-management measures. This preliminary analysis indicates that we could see increasing risk of chronic climate stressors (increasing temperatures, sea level rise) and acute climate events (flooding, drought, extreme temperatures) at a majority of the sites by 2060. Such potential risks are not forecasts and are not necessarily indicative of future performance. They also do not take into account potential risk-mitigation or adaptation efforts and assume that such sites continue to operate through the dates specified. Current opportunities include: 
sustainable and resilient programs and services, such as the Priceless Planet Coalition , and carbon calculator 
tools  such as ours, which is powered
by the Doconomy Åland Index; accelerated digitization of transactions; and resilience services, such as support for disaster needs. Current transition risks include: impacts to travel patterns and inequitable global growth. 
We are using the results of the 
initial analysis to inform our key functions, including risk, strategy and government engagement. 
Metrics and targets 
We have made several notable commitments to combat climate change, including: 
• Net-zero  emissions by 2050 
• SBTi-approved GHG goal  to reduce 
total Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
38% and Scope 3 emissions by 20% by 2025 from a 2016 baseline 
• RE100, which reinforces 
our achievement of procuring 100% renewable electricity 
• Regrowth of 100 million trees  over 
5 years through the Priceless Planet Coalition TCFD Index 
60  
   
   
  
 
   
  
  
       
  
    
 
  
  
  
     
05 TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) INDEX 
Additionally, in line with TCFD’s recommendations, we publicly disclose our climate-related information through our annual CDP Climate Change response . We have provided a table mapping TCFD’s 
disclosure recommendations to our CDP responses. 
TCFD CORE ELEMENT TCFD DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT (SHORT) TCFD DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT (COMPLETE) CDP 2021 CLIMATE CHANGE 
01 
02 
03 
04 
Degree of board oversight (a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. C1.1b 
ESG Governance 
(b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and Management’s role C1.2, C1.2a opportunities. 
(a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over Climate-related risks and opportunities C2.1a, C2.3, C2.3a, C2.4, C2.4a the short, medium, and long term. TCFD Index 
(b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C3.1d, C3.1e Strategy Impacts of risks and opportunities businesses, strategy and financial planning. C3.1f, C3.2a,  C3.3, C3.4, C3.4a 
(c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different Resilience of the organization’s strategy C3.2, C3.2a climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C-or-lower scenario. 
Climate risk identification process (a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a 
Climate risk management process (b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. C2.1, C2.2 Risk management 
(c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are Integration with other risk-management processes C2.1, C2.2 integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. 
(a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and Identify risk-assessment metrics C4.2, C4.2a, C4.2b, C9.1 opportunities in line with its strategy and risk-management process. 
(b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, Metrics & targets Identify GHG emissions C6.1, C6.3, C6.5 and the related risks. 
(c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.2, C4.2a, Identify targets and risk metrics opportunities and performance against targets. C4.2b 
61 DESCRIPTION FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 GRI SASB WEF SCM 
General 
Organization name Mastercard 102-1 
Purpose, mission and values Purpose Statement; Who We Are 102-16 Governing purpose 
Activities, brands, products and services 2020 10-K 102-2 
Markets served Who We Are 102-6 
Location of headquarters Purchase, New York 102-3 
Countries of operations Global locations 102-4 
Ownership and legal form 2020 10-K 102-5 
Scale of organization 2020 10-K; 2021 Proxy 102-7 
Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Financials and SEC filings 102-10 
Operational and financial results 2020 10-K 201-1 Employment and 
wealth generation 
Total tax paid 2020 10-K; U.K. Tax Strategy 201-1 Community and social vitality 
Statement from senior decision-maker 
Page 2 102-14 
Key impacts, risks and opportunities Page 10; 2020 10-K 102-15 Risk and opportunity oversight 
Stakeholder engagement, including memberships 
2021 Proxy;  several references throughout report 102-13, 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 Stakeholder engagement 
Reporting practice 
Page 24 
Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2020 10-K 102-45 
Defining report content, topic boundaries and period The report covers the 2020 fiscal year, spanning Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2020. In some cases, we include data and information about programs and activities relevant to our corporate sustainability key areas of impact that occurred in the 2021 fiscal year, as noted. 102-46, 102-50 
List of material topics 
Page 10 102-47 Stakeholder engagement 
Restatements of information None 102-48 
Changes in reporting None 102-49 
Date of most recent report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report published August 27, 2020 102-51 
Reporting cycle Annual 102-52 
Contact point for questions regarding report sustainability@mastercard.com 102-53 ESG DATA TABLE 
The following table discloses information about our ESG programs, policies and metrics mapped to the following voluntary reporting frameworks and initiatives: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Software & IT Services industry standards; and the World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics (SCM) core themes. The metrics reported are based on relevance to our business and our current disclosures, aligning to our ESG materiality assessment. 
62 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Data Table
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
        
 
 
 
 
 
      
  
 
ESG ESG DATA TABLE 
DESCRIPTION FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 GRI SASB WEF SCM 
General 
Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option 102-54 
GRI content index 
Pages 62–69 102-55 
External assurance Page 58 102-56 
Governance 
Ethics and Compliance Pages 45–47 
Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Page 45; Code of Conduct; Supplier Code of Conduct 102-16 Governing purpose 
Employee completion of annual compliance and ethics training (% of total workforce) 100% 100% 100% 205-2 Ethical behavior 
Grievance mechanism for employees, third parties and public at large 
Page 45; Ethics Helpline 102-17 Ethical behavior 
Anti-competition Page 46 102-25 
Anti-corruption Page 46; Code of Conduct 205-2 Ethical behavior 
Employees and Board of Directors received training about anti-corruption (%) 100% 100% 100% 
Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anti-competitive behavior regulations 
Mastercard discloses all material legal proceedings in our SEC reports. TC-SI-520a.1 
Public policy and political contributions Political Activity and Public Policy Statement 415, 415-1 
Governance Structure 2021 Proxy Statement 102-18, 102-19, 
102-23, 102-24 Quality of governing body 
Executive-level responsibility for ESG topics 2021 Proxy Statement 102-20 
Composition of the highest governance and its committees 2021 Proxy Statement 102-22, 405, 405-1 
Board of Directors 2021 Proxy Statement 405, 405-1 
Women 29% 27% 27% 
Men 71% 73% 73% 
Asian 43% 
Black 7% 
Latino 7% 
White 43% 
Sustainability experience 86% 
Women/men and ethnicity totals do not include unknown. Denominators include unknown. Senior management includes Senior Vice President and above. 63 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Data Table     
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
       ESG DESCRIPTION FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 GRI SASB WEF SCM 
Governance 
Management committee 2021 Proxy Statement 405, 405-1 
Women 21% 20% 
Men 79% 80% 
Internationally based 38% 43% 
Average age 52 53 
Racially or Ethnically diverse 44% 
Remuneration policies and disclosure 2021 Proxy Statement 102-35, 102-36, 102-37 
Annual total compensation ratio 2021 Proxy Statement 102-38 
Risk management 2020 10-K 102-33 
Business continuity risks related to disruptions of operations 2020 10-K TC-SI-550a.2 
Approach to identifying and addressing data security risks, 
including use of third-party cybersecurity standards Pages 48–54; Privacy and data protection report TC-SI-230a.2 Risk and opportunity oversight 
Privacy, data protection and security Pages 48–54; Privacy and data protection report; 
Mastercard Binding Corporate Rules; Our commitment to privacy 418 TC-SI-220a.1, TC-SI-230a.1 
Policies and practices relating to user privacy 
Pages 48–50; Privacy and data protection report; 
Mastercard Binding Corporate Rules; Our commitment to privacy TC-SI-220a.1 
Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with user privacy 
Mastercard discloses all material legal proceedings in our SEC reports. TC-SI-220a.3 
Data security: monitoring fraud Pages 51–54 TC-SI-230a.1 
Responsible Sourcing and Supplier Diversity Pages 40, 56; Supplier Code of Conduct 102-9 
Social 
Total Employees 21,000 18,600 14,800 102-7, 102-8, 405, 405-1 TC-SI-330a.3 Dignity and equality 
Employees in # of countries outside of U.S. 63% in 82 countries 61% in 82 countries TCI-SI-330a.4 
Employees by gender (global) 
Female 38% 39% 39% 
Male 61% 61% 61% 
Senior management by gender (global) 
Female 32% 33% 33% 
Male 68% 67% 67% ESG DATA TABLE 
Women/men and ethnicity totals do not include unknown. Denominators include unknown. Senior management includes Senior Vice President and above. 64 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Data Table 
    
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
  
 
 ESG DESCRIPTION FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 GRI SASB WEF SCM 
Social 
Employees by ethnicity (U.S.) 
Black or African American 5.6% 5.5% 5.6% 
Hispanic or Latino 8.4% 8.3% 8.4% 
Asian 22.3% 20.6% 19.9% 
All other people of color 1.8% 2% 1.7% 
White 59.5% 60.6% 64.4% 
Senior management by ethnicity (U.S.) 
Black or African American 6.4% 4.2% 4.5% 
Hispanic or Latino 11.1% 11.2% 10.7% 
Asian 13.3% 14.8% 15.1% 
All other people of color 0.9% 1.8% 1.7% 
White 66% 67.4% 68% 
Country managers by gender (global) 
Female 31% 29% 
Male 69% 71% 
Undergraduate interns Page 28 
Female (global) 42% 47% 
Male (global) 57% 49% 
Asian (U.S.) 42% 37% 
Black or African American (U.S.) 5% 11% 
Hispanic or Latino (U.S.) 9% 16% 
All other people of color (U.S.) 3% 1% 
White (U.S.) 39% 32% 
Recruitment Pages 27–28 
% of global final candidate interviews that include women 78% 71% 77% 
% of global final candidate interviews that include men 81% 80% 
% of U.S. final interviews that include a candidate of color 81% 83% 81% 
% of U.S. final interviews that include a white candidate 73% 79% ESG DATA TABLE 
Women/men and ethnicity totals do not include unknown. Denominators include unknown. Senior management includes Senior Vice President and above. 65 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Data Table 
    
 
    
 
 
 
 ESG DESCRIPTION FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 GRI SASB WEF SCM 
Social 
Senior management recruitment Pages 27–28 
% of global final candidate interviews that include women 81% 67% 70% 
% of global final candidate interviews that include men 90% 88% 
% of U.S. final interviews that include a candidate of color 73% 82% 79% 
% of U.S. final interviews that include a white candidate 80% 84% 
Hiring Pages 27–28 
% of global hires that were women 38% 40% 41% 
% of global hires that were men 62% 60% 59% 
% of U.S. hires that were people of color 50% 45% 42% 
% of U.S. hires that were white 46% 55% 58% 
Senior management hiring 
% of global hires that were women 44% 33% 38% 
% of global hires that were men 56% 67% 62% 
% of U.S. hires that were people of color 36% 42% 37% 
% of U.S. hires that were white 64% 58% 63% 
University hires Page 28 
% of global university hires that were women 39% 42% 
% of global university hires that were men 61% 58% 
% of U.S. university hires that were people of color 61% 61% 
% of U.S. university hires that were white 38% 39% 
Career moves % of global career moves experienced by women 39% 40% 40% 
% of global career moves experienced by men 60% 60% 60% 
% of U.S. career moves experienced by people of color 39% 38% 38% 
% of U.S. career moves experienced by white 59% 60% 61% 
Senior management career moves (laterals and promotions) 
% of global career moves experienced by women 36% 35% 35% 
% of global career moves experienced by men 64% 64% 65% 
% of U.S. career moves experienced by people of color 35% 36% 38% 
% of U.S. career moves experienced by white 62% 61% 61% ESG DATA TABLE 
Women/men and ethnicity totals do not include unknown. Denominators include unknown. Senior management includes Senior Vice President and above. 66 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Data Table 
 
 
 
 
 ESG Women/men and ethnicity totals do not include unknown. Denominators include unknown. Senior management includes Senior Vice President and above. DESCRIPTION FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 GRI SASB WEF SCM 
Social 
Equal pay Page 35 Page 50 405-2 Dignity and equality 
Women-to-men pay equity (global) $1.00 to $1.00 $1.00 to $1.00 $0.996 to $1.000 
Median pay for women (global) 92.4% 92.2% 
People-of-color-to-Caucasian pay equity (U.S.) $1.00 to $1.00 $1.006 to $1.000 
Median pay for people of color (U.S.) 92.4% 93.0% 
Employees subject to collective bargaining 
agreements (U.S.) 0 0 0 102-41 
Employee engagement Page 31–33 TC-SI-330a.2 
Employee engagement favorability 85% 
Employee health, safety and well-being Pages 34–35 Health and well-being 
Benefits Pages 35; Employee benefits 401-2, 401-3, 403-6 
Ratio of CEO’s compensation to median employee’s compensation 210 to 1 168 to 1 167 to 1 Dignity and equality 
Training and education 
Pages 29–30 404, 404-2 
Employees given performance and career development reviews 100% 100% 100% 404-3 
Human rights Page 55; Human Rights Statement; Code of Conduct; 
Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement 410, 412, 412-1, 412-2 
Inclusive growth Page 13–25 
Mastercard’s giving Pages 24, 32 
Total Mastercard giving $80,172,000 
Community $50,476,000 
COVID-19 and other disaster relief $29,978,000 
Match employee giving $5,633,000 
Employee matching gifts $4,568,000 
Board of Directors matching gifts $98,000 
Retiree matching gifts $562,000 
Volunteer incentive program $155,000 
PAC match $250,000 
Other community $14,861,000 
Data science for social impact and economic development $12,905,000 
Financial security and future of work $16,791,000 ESG DATA TABLE 
67 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Data Table
 
  
  
  
    
 
  
   
   
    
     
    
    
     
   
    
 ESG DESCRIPTION FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 GRI SASB WEF SCM 
Environmental 
Environmental management Pages 36–41 305 Climate change 
Net-zero target Mastercard committed to net-zero emissions by 2050. 
Carbon neutrality We committed to achieving carbon neutrality, or the 100% offset of our 
operational CO2 emissions, in 2021. 
Science-based target Our target calls for a 38% absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2025 from our 2016 base year, and a 20% reduction in Scope 3 emissions over the same period. 
TCFD implementation We aligned with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and have included a separate index  that reflects 
our governance, strategy and risk management, and metrics and targets related to climate. 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
Page 37 Climate change 
Scope 1 GHG emissions (MTCO2e) 3,221 4,758 4,828 305-1, 305-5 
Scope 2 GHG emissions (MTCO2e) (location-based) 52,538 52,141 52,859 
Scope 2 GHG emissions (MTCO2e) (market-based) 268 162 3,399 
Breakdown of Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions (MTCO2e) 
Data centers 32,455 31,295 29,798 305-2, 305-5 
Offices 22,319 23,649 26,644 
Travel 985 1,955 1,246 
Scope 3 GHG emissions (MTCO2e) 366,143 503,012 495,962 305-3, 305-5 
Purchased goods and services(i) 344,076 396,270 395,684 
Fuel- and energy-related activities 6,485 8,452 11,779 
Waste generated in operations 486 1,288 339 
Business travel 7,373 53,738 49,174 
Employee commuting 7,723 43,264 38,986 
Greenhouse gas intensity (MTCO2e/$revenue) 0.0000036 0.0000034 0.000006 305-4 
Energy management Page 38–39 302 
Total energy consumed (MWh) 107,320 109,718 114,944 302-1, 302-4 TC-SI-130a.1 
Data centers 61,862 50,522 40,481 
Offices 45,458 59,196 74,463 
Grid electricity (%) 97% 97% 98% TC-SI-130a.1 ESG DATA TABLE 
(i) Includes purchased goods and services and capital goods. 68 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Data Table  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 ESG DESCRIPTION FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 GRI SASB WEF SCM 
Environmental 
Renewable energy (%) 100% 100% 100% TC-SI-130a.1 
On-site creation 3.2% 3% 2% 
Direct procurement 8.3% 10% 11% 
Unbundled renewable energy credits 88.5% 87% 87% 
Data centers Page 38 TC-SI-130a.3 
Average PUE(ii) 1.5 1.55 1.41 TC-SI-130a.3 
Waste management Page 41 306 
Waste generated (lbs) 1,037,603 3,111,778 2,294,341 306-2 
Waste diverted (lbs) 760,657 2,470,640 1,766,001 306-2 
Percentage of waste diverted 73% 80% 77% 306-2 
Water management 303 
Water consumption (cubic meters) 120,504 130,253 128,549 303-5 ESG DATA TABLE 
(ii) Vocalink’s PUE was included in 2020 and 2019. For previous years, it was not included. 69 
01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
ESG Data Table 
  
 
  ESG 