Environmental, Social
& Governance Report
Pfizer 2021Pfizer 2021 ESG Report2
In This Report
Introduction
A letter from our Chairman & CEO
A letter from our Lead Independent Director
Progress and highlights 2021
Our approach to ESG
Priority ESG issues
Impact Stories
Moving at the Speed of Science to Address a Global Crisis
Financing for a Sustainable Future
Refreshing Our DEI Strategy
Environment
Climate Change
Sustainable Medicines
Social
Innovation and Global Health
Human Capital
Governance
Ethics, Transparency, and Quality
Accountability
Performance
Environment
Social
Governance
Appendix
GRI index
SASB index
TCFD
About This Report
Independent Accountants’ Report03
04
08
09
10
12
14
15
18
23
25
26
29
31
32
37
40
41
49
51
52
55
61
62
63
73
76
81
82This report provides information on our ESG progress in the year from January 
1, 2021, to December 31, 2021; it includes an overview of performance, as well as 
data on 32 key performance indicators. 
For more information please see About this Report on page 81 .
Where to find more informationWhat this report covers
2020 Annual Review
2021 Annual Documents  — 2021 Annual Review   — 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K   — 2022 Proxy Statement
COVID-19 HubThis report represents Pfizer’s continued commitment to 
enhance stakeholder awareness of our priority Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG) issues and discusses how our 
performance on non-financial metrics is contributing to long-
term value creation and a sustainable, responsible and patient-
centric business model.
The disclosures contained in this report 
underscore our commitment to delivering 
breakthroughs that change patients’ lives 
through ethical decision-making and our 
core values — Courage, Excellence, Equity 
and Joy. IntroductionPfizer 2021 ESG Report4
Letter from our Chairman & CEO
To Our Stakeholders 
As I reflect on the past year, I am extremely proud of the positive impacts 
that our scientific breakthroughs continue to deliver for patients and 
society. By remaining laser-focused on our purpose, we were able to 
achieve unprecedented progress in helping to address some of the world’s 
most pressing challenges. I also realize there is still more we need to 
do, significant inequities that must be overcome, and real threats to our 
society and environment that lie ahead. I am confident we can rise to any 
challenge, just as we have in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
My confidence is grounded in my belief that Pfizer is fundamentally a 
different company today than it was just two years ago. By applying the 
lessons learned from our work to develop a COVID-19 vaccine and oral 
treatment1, and by further embedding Environmental, Social & Governance 
(ESG) principles into our core operations, we have transformed the way 
we discover, develop, finance, and deliver breakthroughs that change 
patients’ lives. At the same time, external forces transforming societal and 
environmental norms, along with our internal commitment to equity as 
one of our core values, have reinforced the importance of integrating ESG 
into our day-to-day activities. 
In 2021, we continued to focus on ways to make a meaningful and 
measurable impact. Never before has our impact been so wide-reaching 
when it comes to the number of patients treated or vaccinated with a Pfizer 
product. We reached an estimated 1.4 billion1 patients with our medicines 
and vaccines – roughly one out of every six people on Earth. Even when 
we separate out our breakthrough COVID-19 products, we treated an 
estimated 424 million patients globally.
Our ESG strategy includes six priority areas: product innovation; equitable 
access and pricing; product quality and safety; diversity, equity and 
inclusion; climate change; and business ethics. Our progress on these 
areas is detailed in this report, and we look forward to engaging with 
colleagues and other stakeholders to hear how we can continue to enhance our impact, both within and outside of Pfizer. We also continue 
to refine the metrics we use to measure our performance as the voluntary 
and emerging regulatory frameworks governing ESG reporting evolve at 
the national, regional and global level. 
Breakthroughs and bold ambition
The significance of “breakthroughs” has never been clearer than it is today 
as we continue to face COVID-19 variants and as unacceptable rates of 
morbidity and mortality from the virus endure. We are unwavering in our 
commitment to applying science and the dedication of our workforce to help 
end the pandemic and address inequities.  
We also recognize that even as some people have received a booster dose 
of our vaccine, others are still waiting for their initial dose. We continue to 
believe we will more rapidly reach more people with our COVID-19 vaccine 
by continuing to scale our manufacturing capacity while maintaining quality 
and safety through the last mile. This is coupled with our unwavering 
support for multilateral organizations and governments with readiness 
programs – including lending our infrastructure expertise – so vaccine doses 
can more quickly translate into vaccinations anywhere in the world. These 
efforts have helped us remain on track to fulfill our pledge to deliver two 
billion doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine to low- and middle-
income countries by the end of 2022, having delivered the first billion by the 
end of 2021.  
We also licensed our intellectual property for the COVID-19 oral treatment 
to the Medicines Patent Pool, which we hope will lead to expanded generic 
access pending country regulatory authorization or approval in low-income 
and lower-middle-income countries as well as some upper-middle income 
countries, accounting for approximately 53% of the world’s population. I am 
proud of how quickly we identified pathways to facilitate more rapid and 
equitable access for our vaccine and treatment, respectively, and we will 
continue to push ourselves to meet patients’ needs, wherever they may live.  
Introduction1    Please refer to “About This Report” for explanation about Emergency Use Authorizations (EUA). Patient counts are estimates based on multiple data sources.Pfizer 2021 ESG Report5
Colleagues at our core
As we scaled up physical capital to meet the needs of society with 
manufacturing and distribution, we recognized we would only achieve our 
bold goals if we simultaneously protected and nurtured our human capital. 
Our approximately 79,000 employees help us reach patients in more than 
165 countries.  
At Pfizer, our policies continue to focus on the safety of our colleagues and 
ways to support our people. We encourage everyone to be their authentic 
selves at work and are proud of our new and expanded colleague benefits 
and wellness offerings. In 2021, we partnered with Thrive Global, a wellness 
and organizational change initiative focused on colleague mental health 
and wellness. We also hosted two global listening sessions with more than 
500 colleagues to discuss topics including allyship, racial bias, and how to 
have difficult conversations with empathy.  
We believe that ESG is part of everyone’s job at Pfizer: it’s important to 
our colleagues, and we have linked performance on our goals to executive 
compensation to drive the behavior and culture changes required to 
achieve such ambitious and sustainable endeavors.  
We have set key performance indicators (KPIs) and continue to evaluate 
additional goals to track our progress on priority issues and programs like 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction and diverse talent attraction, 
retention, and development. As a company with science embedded in our 
roots, branches, and leaves, we understand the importance of data and KPIs.  Letter from our Chairman & CEO
— Continued
IntroductionPfizer 2021 ESG Report6
 IntroductionLetter from our Chairman & CEO
— Continued
Bold Moves and ESG Strategies — Working toward a common objective
Back in 2019, we launched our Purpose Blueprint (including our new Purpose, Bold Moves, and Values), and it has served as our North Star in becoming the new Pfizer. Our ESG strategy 
was aligned to our Purpose Blueprint in 2020, and the close connection between efforts to advance our corporate and ESG strategies and report on our efforts helps accelerate our 
progress towards a long-term sustainable growth trajectory.
Bold Move 1: Unleash The Power Of Our People
We are further building on our inclusive, engaging work environment to 
recognize and reward performance and leadership, and empower all colleagues 
to bring their authentic, best selves to work for the benefit of patients.
Bold Move 2: Deliver First-In-Class Science
We aim to deliver first-in-class science by sourcing the best science in the world 
and significantly improving our innovation success rate through a focus on the 
most promising medical solutions.  
Bold Move 3: Transform Our Go-To-Market Model
We are creating new solutions to address patient access and affordability 
challenges by exploring flexible business models that allow us to reach patients 
and improve their health care experience.
Bold Move 4: Win The Digital Race in Pharma
We are continually exploring ways that digital, data and technology can 
accelerate our business, expedite the drug discovery and development process 
and enhance patient experiences and outcomes.
Bold Move 5: Lead The Conversation
We are engaging with policymakers and other stakeholders to advocate for 
policies that allow innovation to flourish while helping ensure patient access 
to the latest vaccines and therapies – all while communicating the value our 
science brings to society.Implemented in 2021, our new Global DEI Strategy and non-linear colleague growth model are helping us champion personal 
career journeys in line with our purpose. According to our survey results, 90% of colleagues reported feeling engaged, as 
measured by pride, a willingness to recommend Pfizer as a great place to work, and intent to stay, and 92% feel their work 
contributes to our purpose. In 2021, we also made progress toward our 2025 opportunity parity goal with a 3.4% increase of 
females globally and 3.5% increase of minorities in the U.S. at the Vice President level and above.
Our 2021 end-to-end clinical success rate for new molecular entities represents a four-fold increase from 2015. We began 
tracking FDA breakthrough designations as an independent measure of innovation that addresses unmet needs and delivery to 
patients as quickly as possible. From 2017 to 2021, 45% of Pfizer new molecular entity and novel biologics license applications 
approved by the FDA were designated as Breakthrough Therapies. 
No single model is able to address access and affordability challenges for all products, which is why we work with a range 
of bilateral and multilateral partners to create solutions and help advance health equity.  Based on our efforts to proactively 
address antimicrobial resistance (AMR), another growing public health challenge that has significant impact across the globe, 
Pfizer was recognized as a joint leader in the Access to Medicine Foundation Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Benchmark. We 
were recognized as the industry leader in the category of antibiotic stewardship, which includes strategies to expand access and 
ensure continuous supply and appropriate use of relevant products.
The pandemic has accelerated digital transformation drastically, and in 2021 we automated 90% of transactions on a baseline 
of 100 million transactions annually, exceeding the original goal of 75%. We have embedded the practice of working faster and 
leaner in 267 dedicated, cross-functional teams across the company to accelerate innovation and better respond to customer 
needs.  Digital programs are also enabling us to better engage with patients and healthcare systems and this year we increased 
the number of programs to 38 in total. For example, our LivingWith™ digital app provides valuable resources to approximately 
90,000 cancer patients and their caregivers.
One of the ways we measure our success is PatientView’s annual ‘Corporate Reputation of Pharma’ survey, which asks more than 
1,900 patient advocacy groups in 84 countries to assess pharmaceutical organizations across a range of important activities. In 
the 2020 Global PatientView survey, Pfizer ranked #2 amongst the largest 14 pharmaceutical companies thanks to our range 
of services and support “beyond the pill” as well as our patient information score, which measures how usable and timely 
information is for patients.
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report7
Looking ahead
Advancing science has never been more urgent or more important to 
meet society’s needs in an ever-changing world. I am proud of how our 
employees have helped us further our purpose and the breakthroughs 
we achieved in 2021. As we tackle future threats to the health of people 
and our planet, I am confident that incredible things can happen when 
people come together to address a problem.  
The future of medicine is happening at Pfizer, and we’re committed 
to work together and with our partners to improve health around the 
world. 
Dr. Albert Bourla
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer
IntroductionLetter from our Chairman & CEO
— Continued
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report8
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to thank you for your 
interest in Pfizer. I am pleased to share with you our 2021 ESG Report. 
Over the past two decades, we have observed an evolution in how Pfizer 
and our stakeholders think and talk about the importance of ESG topics. 
Today, ESG has evolved into the mainstream, and is factored into Pfizer’s 
values, and our short- and long-term strategy. These topics have become 
a growing part of conversations we have with stakeholders  — from 
shareholders, patients and colleagues and the communities in which we 
operate in and serve around the world. Accordingly, these topics have 
become key focus areas for Pfizer and the Board. 
In recognition of the growing importance of ESG topics among our 
stakeholders, the Board more directly and explicitly formalized in 2020 
its oversight of Pfizer’s ESG efforts, with the Governance & Sustainability 
Committee assuming oversight responsibility of Pfizer’s overall ESG 
strategy, reporting, policies and practices. The Committee receives regular 
updates from management on Pfizer’s ESG priorities and the Company’s 
progress against related metrics and targets. The Committee and 
management also discuss potential initiatives to further enhance Pfizer’s 
ESG performance.  
As a Board, we recognize that diversity, equity, and inclusion are growing 
interest areas among our stakeholders. In particular, at the Board level, 
we strive to maintain a Board that includes a diverse set of experiences, 
qualifications, attributes, and skills. Accordingly, the Board considers a 
diverse pool of qualified candidates across several dimensions, including 
skills, gender, age, race, ethnicity, background, professional experience, 
and perspectives, as evidenced by the addition of six new independent 
Directors since 2017.The Board is fully engaged and supportive of Pfizer’s ESG initiatives and 
continues to believe that our commitment to sustainability and corporate 
responsibility are essential to the Company’s long-term success. We are 
proud to share Pfizer’s progress on these efforts in this report and eager to 
hear responses and reactions from you. 
Thank you for your interest on these important topics and we look forward 
to sharing updates as we further Pfizer’s efforts. 
IntroductionMr. Shantanu Narayen
Lead Independent Director Letter from our Lead Independent Director
Dear Stakeholders,
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report9
 Introduction2021 Progress and Highlights
21%
Clinical success rate (first-in-
human to approval) for Pfizer 
new molecular entities by end 
of 20217%
Reduction in scope 1 and 
2 greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions from 2019 baseline 4th
Consecutive year on CDP’s 
Supplier Engagement 
Leaderboard
1.4b
Estimated patients1 treated or 
vaccinated by a Pfizer product
Named one of the World’s 
Most Ethical Companies by 
Ethisphere   41.5%
Representation for  
women at VP+ levels globally15%
Reduction in water withdrawal 
and 13% reduction in hazardous 
and non-hazardous waste 
disposed compared to 2020
25%
Representation for U.S. 
minorities at VP+ level424m
Estimated patients1 treated 
excluding COVID-19 
vaccines or treatments
3/12
3 out of 12 board directors 
identify as ethnically diverse4/12
4 out of 12 board  
directors are female
“World’s Most Ethical Companies” and 
“Ethisphere” names and marks are 
registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC.
1    Patient counts are estimates based on multiple data sources.Pfizer 2021 ESG Report10
At the heart of Pfizer’s ESG approach is the simple idea that our values and 
commitment to long-term sustainability is the way we strive to responsibly fulfill 
our purpose – breakthroughs that change patients’ lives – build trust, and take 
accountability for the impact we make on society. 
ESG issues are increasingly a priority to stakeholders, including shareholders. We recognize the impact of environmental issues 
on society and public health, and we seek to harness our cutting-edge science to create a healthier, more equitable world. We 
are committed to acting ethically, thoughtfully, and responsibly in all that we do. Guided by our purpose, we are focused on: Our Approach To ESG
• Climate action
• Sustainable medicines
• Resource conservation• Product innovation
• Equitable access
• Diversity, equity, and 
inclusion (DEI)• Continually prioritizing 
integrity and transparency 
in our businessEnvironmental Social Governance
IntroductionPfizer 2021 ESG Report11
Our purpose is more important now than ever, as societal, environmental and economic 
shifts impact global health and health equity. In 2020, we laid the foundation to more 
intentionally connect our purpose with our ESG strategy in order to better understand 
and address the needs of patients, colleagues, partners, shareholders and communities. 
In 2021, we advanced this work by further embedding ESG throughout our corporate 
strategy, business operations, and governance structure. Our Approach To ESG
— Continued
Enhancing the rigor in the processes and controls used 
to govern the integrity of data used in our ESG metrics. 
We strengthened procedures, automated controls, 
and instituted practices used in Pfizer’s financial 
reporting processes with the aim of increasing 
stakeholder confidence in our disclosures.  
Embedding an ESG lens in our assessments of 
potential acquisitions, investments, and divestitures. 
Assessing ESG factors in the business development 
process is critical to mitigate potential risks to 
Pfizer’s business, reputation, and commitment to our 
Purpose and Values, and to better understand the 
risk-adjusted value of a business or an asset. Potential 
partners need to be ready to stand out not only in 
terms of production and innovation but also in the 
realms of good corporate governance, environmental 
stewardship and commitment to social issues and 
community investment.  
Aligning divisional strategies related to Pfizer’s priority 
Environmental, Social, and Governance issues to tell 
a coherent narrative about our impact on society 
and enhance the rigor around public disclosures. As 
Pfizer expanded its DEI strategy in 2021, important 
ESG principles were taken into account and embedded 
formally in the governance structure.  Our efforts included: 
Evolving Pfizer’s approach to financing capital 
investments using ESG-related instruments. After 
launching the biopharmaceutical industry’s first 
Sustainability Bond in 2020, we followed in 2021 
by launching a second Sustainability Bond and 
establishing a $7 billion, 5-year revolving credit facility, 
which included ESG KPI-linked metrics focused on our 
long-term corporate goals and annual targets related 
to carbon emissions and diversity, equity & inclusion.  
IntroductionPfizer 2021 ESG Report12
Identifying priority issues and engaging 
with stakeholders 
Over the past year, we’ve had important conversations with key internal and external stakeholders, including 
employees, investors, policymakers, patient advocacy groups, academia, and customers. Feedback received from 
stakeholders is critical to validate the results of our priority assessment, which was conducted in the second half of 
2020. We intend to further enhance and systematize the processes by which we capture stakeholder feedback and 
consider the optimal frequency of conducting formal updates to our priority assessment in the future. In 2021, for 
example, we experienced an increase in the level of engagement we had on ESG-related priority issues with: patient 
advocates, employees, investors, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).  Priority ESG Issues  
Our ESG report is one of the primary ways we report progress and communicate with stakeholders. Other channels for communicating progress against 
our targets include updates during quarterly earnings, press releases, and direct engagement through meetings and industry association participation.  Patient Advocacy Organizations
In 2021, Pfizer’s Global Patient Advocacy Team engaged more than 1,800 global 
patient advocacy groups across North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia 
through trainings, workshops and webinars focused on health policy issues, 
capacity building, patient centricity and patient education and information.  
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
Pfizer has a long history of engaging with organizations advocating for access 
to medicines and vaccines, environmental concerns, transparency, and business 
ethics. As the COVID-19 pandemic and climate issues remained at the forefront 
in 2021, we increased the breadth and depth of communication with NGOs and 
coalitions. Among the organizations with which we experienced an increase in 
engagement included: Oxfam, Amnesty International, Doctors Without Borders, 
and Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
Investors
Through written surveys and questionnaires, one-on-one conversations, and in 
public forums, we significantly increased our dialogue at multiple levels of the 
organization. Our Chairman and CEO addressed over 200 investors convened 
at the CECP Biopharma CEO Investor Forum and participated in the Morgan 
Stanley Sustainable Investing Summit. We held our first ESG investor event, 
which featured a fireside chat between Pfizer Board Director and Chair of the 
Governance & Sustainability Committee, Joseph Echevarria, and Rady Johnson, 
Pfizer Chief Compliance, Quality and Risk Officer. The event was broadcast 
publicly and described how the Board addresses ESG issues across multiple 
committees, and how our approach to ESG is integrated with the Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) program, which provides a framework for risk identification 
and management. 
Colleagues
2021 marked an inflection point in the breadth and depth of awareness and 
engagement by Pfizer colleagues in our ESG strategy, programs, and reporting. 
Colleagues were both inspired by the actions taken by the company to address 
issues related to our breakthroughs for COVID-19 and other diseases, and 
curious to find out what they could do to support our efforts. We raised internal 
awareness about our strategic approach to ESG through an enterprise-wide 
webinar, as well as conversations led by our Chief Sustainability Officer and our 
ESG Head with division leadership teams and departmental town halls.
IntroductionPfizer 2021 ESG Report13
Reporting on our highest priority issues  
The priority assessment we conducted in 2020 helped 
map current ESG issues and the relative impact 
on our business and expectations of our external 
stakeholders. Through our analysis, we identified 30 
topics, the most significant of which are discussed 
in this ESG Report. These have been mapped to our 
six ESG priority areas, which closely align to our Bold 
Moves outlined in our Purpose Blueprint, as well 
as the risks and opportunities identified with our 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) approach.
 
Based on the results of our 2020 assessment and 
subsequent stakeholder engagement in 2021, we 
sharpened the focus of our ESG strategy on these high 
priority topics, while also monitoring and managing 
the other issues from our assessment. 
We recognize that our priority issues may evolve over 
time. We will continue to regularly engage with a wide 
variety of stakeholders to understand their changing 
needs, interests and expectations of Pfizer, and are 
committed to adjusting our approach as appropriate.Priority ESG Issues
— Continued
Integration with our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) process  
The ESG priorities were also informed by our ERM 
process, which provides a framework for risk 
identification and management, the outputs of 
which are reported to the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors. Pfizer Corporate Audit facilitates 
the ERM process in coordination with Legal and 
Corporate Compliance and helps ensure that ERM is 
integrated into our strategic and operating planning 
process. For the first time, ESG risks were integrated 
into the ERM process in 2020. We will continue to 
further align our ESG, corporate strategy and ERM 
processes to enable a holistic view of risks and 
opportunities to help protect and enhance value. 
IntroductionIn 2021, three focus areas stood out as key indicators of the 
progress we made against our ESG goals and commitments, as 
well as critical external drivers.
The sections that follow highlight our extensive 
work across these priorities, leading with our 
ongoing ambition to help ensure equitable access 
to COVID-19 vaccines and treatments. We also cover 
the global impact made through our Sustainability 
Bond as we further connect our ESG and financial 
strategies, as well as Pfizer’s refreshed Global 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion strategy, which 
applies within our direct operations and beyond.Impact StoriesPfizer 2021 ESG Report15
 Impact StoriesFrom the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have 
worked relentlessly to leverage our decades of experience 
and expertise in development, testing, manufacturing and 
distribution, along with our partnerships, to work towards 
safe and effective vaccines and treatments for all. As a 
healthcare company, we understand human rights to be 
of the utmost relevance to our business, given the right to 
health’s wide-ranging interconnections to other fundamental 
rights. Our responsibility to respect human rights extends 
across our entire product portfolio, but the pandemic has 
helped create an amplified urgency to ensure equitable 
access to vaccines and treatments against COVID-19.   
Equity is a core value of our company and has been 
the north star of our COVID-19 response. Clinical trial 
diversity played an important role in our COVID-19 vaccine 
development program, where we ensured that historically 
underrepresented participants had access to our COVID-19 
vaccine trials, and where we enrolled racially and ethnically 
diverse participants reflecting the patient population where 
the burden of disease has been higher. It has also driven 
our ongoing collaboration with governments and key 
stakeholders around the world to work towards fair and 
equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines while also providing 
our expertise and resources for novel approaches to help 
strengthen healthcare systems where greater support may 
be needed. We recognize that there is a lot of interest in 
every aspect of our work in relation to access to the COVID-19 
vaccine and treatment and are grateful for all feedback. 
We remain open to and welcome partnership for new and 
creative ways to reach more people.   
In order to accelerate our efforts to reach vulnerable 
populations, we pledged to provide 2 billion doses of the 
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine to low- and middle-income 
countries in 2021 and 2022 – at least 1 billion doses each year. 
Lower-middle-income and upper-middle-income countries 
are currently home to 75% of the world’s population and 
62% of the world’s poor. We fulfilled this pledge in December 
2021, with more than 1 billion doses delivered to 100 low- 
and middle- income countries, including South Africa, Kenya, Rwanda, Jordan, Ukraine, Dominican Republic, Honduras, 
Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia – among many others.   
As part of this strategy, Pfizer is a proud partner and top 
contributor to the COVAX facility, a worldwide initiative aimed 
at equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines directed by the GAVI 
vaccine alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness 
Innovations, and the World Health Organization, alongside 
key delivery partners UNICEF and the Pan American Health 
Organization. In 2021, Pfizer worked with COVAX and government partners to enable supply of more than 250 
million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, 
more than 25% of the total COVAX supply in 2021. The U.S. 
Government was a critical partner in this effort, committing to 
purchase 1 billion doses at the not-for-profit price to donate 
to the 92 COVAX Advanced Market Commitment (AMC) 
countries as well as the member states of the African Union 
that are not already part of the AMC 92. More than 200 million 
of these doses were delivered in 2021, and the remaining 800 
million will be delivered through 2022.     Moving at the Speed of Science to Address a Global Crisis
Our Ongoing Mission to Help Ensure Equitable Global Access to the COVID-19 Vaccines & Treatments COVID-19
Vaccine distribution showing the 166 countries and territories where Pfizer doses were received in 2021  
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report16
Vaccine Distribution and Partnerships
We know that it won’t just be vaccines that will help bring an 
end to this pandemic, but vaccinations.  Country readiness 
is critical in ensuring that vaccinations are successful. Based 
on our experience working with Ministries of Health and 
multilateral organizations during the unprecedented scale up 
of vaccination campaigns, we have seen multiple issues when 
it comes to supply planning and delivery, including, the ability 
to properly maintain product handling requirements, the 
availability of sufficient ultra-cold-chain (UCC) and traditional 
cold chain capacity, availability of essential supplies such as 
syringes and diluent, and resource and training limitations 
as well as lower uptake rates due to hesitancy. Without 
cold chain support, countries are not able to accept high 
volumes of vaccine that allow for robust and comprehensive 
vaccination campaigns. And, without service delivery and 
sufficient workforce capacity, vaccines in country will not 
result in vaccinations.   Distributing these types of products rapidly and at national 
scale has no precedent in modern public health, and close 
coordination across all stakeholders is critical for ensuring 
the success of vaccination campaigns. Continued investment 
in readiness efforts in many lower income countries are still 
necessary to ensure that vaccines shipped effectively reach 
populations. We continue to partner with the global health 
community, governments and private industry to address 
these challenges.  
As a few key examples:  
• Pfizer and the UPS Foundation are committed to 
accelerating the equitable distribution of COVID-19 
vaccinations. The UPS Foundation is donating freezers 
to countries that need assistance with building out their 
ultra-cold chain capacity, and Pfizer provides guidance 
and experience in product supply. Our partnership 
leverages innovation in the healthcare cold chain to 
move our world forward by safely, securely and quickly 
delivering vaccines to areas where they are needed most.
• As part of a four-year partnership with Zipline, Pfizer 
is supporting an innovative pilot initiative in Ghana, 
focused on delivering vaccines requiring cold-chain 
storage to hard-to-reach areas using drones. The initial 
success of the project suggests that the program could 
be quickly expanded to deliver doses of COVID-19 
vaccines to remote regions across the world where 
Zipline operates.
• Pfizer has signed a memorandum of understanding 
with Global Environment and Technology Foundation 
to collaborate with Project Last Mile. The partnership 
is focused on aligning the supply chain expertise and 
technical capabilities of Coca-Cola, a company whose 
supply chain is characterized as one of the widest 
reaching in the world, with technical expertise from 
Pfizer on vaccine handling, storage and administration in 
order to improve the availability of vaccines in developing 
countries, and, in particular, to those residing in and 
around the last mile of the medical supply chain in Africa.COVID-19
Moving at the Speed of Science to Address a Global Crisis  
— Continued
COVID-19 vaccines arrive in Botswana
Pfizer is supporting an innovative 
pilot initiative in Ghana, focused on 
delivering vaccines requiring cold-
chain storage to hard-to-reach areas 
using drones
Impact StoriesPfizer 2021 ESG Report17
Through our ongoing efforts and initiatives, we remain fully 
focused on getting high-quality, safe and effective vaccines 
to patients all over the world as quickly as possible to help 
end the COVID-19 pandemic.   
Pfizer’s purpose is to bring breakthroughs that change 
patients’ lives. With the people most in need always in 
mind, we will continue to work towards a future where 
disease doesn’t win, but science does. We recognize and 
are concerned by the complex evolution of the pandemic 
and how it continues to have severe impacts on individuals, 
families and communities. We continue to regularly 
evaluate the risks it poses to people, particularly in the most 
vulnerable geographies, and among the most vulnerable 
groups of society.  No single organization or company can 
solve the equity challenge alone.
We are committed to continue evolving and improving our 
response to this pandemic where we can, and we strongly 
welcome the opportunity to engage with others to share 
challenges, lessons learned and to build collaborative 
solutions to improve equitable healthcare access globally. 
The right to health remains one of our most salient 
priorities, with availability, accessibility and affordability 
standing as key areas of focus. COVID-19
Moving at the Speed of Science to Address a Global Crisis  
— Continued
COVID-19 vaccines arrive in Kigali, Rwanda
Impact StoriesPfizer 2021 ESG Report18
At Pfizer, our commitment to ESG helps us advance our purpose and drive positive 
impacts relevant to the breakthroughs we aim to deliver. In 2021, we took steps to further 
embed our commitment to ESG into all aspects of our corporate strategy, including 
applying an ESG discipline to our financing approach to help fight the pandemic, reduce 
our environmental footprint and improve diverse representation at our company.  
This past August, we continued to focus our efforts by reapplying an ESG lens to our 
capital raising strategies by issuing a second Sustainability Bond, this time raising $1.0 
billion. We followed the same path as we did in 2020, by assembling a cross-functional 
team to assess the benefits associated with issuing a second Sustainability Bond. We 
leveraged the Sustainability Bond Framework we established in 2020 when we issued the 
biopharmaceutical industry’s first such bond, which raised $1.25 billion. Proceeds from 
the 2020 Sustainability Bond are being used to help manage our environmental impact 
and to support increased patient access to Pfizer’s medicines and vaccines, especially 
among underserved populations, and to strengthen health care systems. Proceeds from the August 2021 Sustainability Bond were used to support the research 
and development (R&D) expenses related to our COVID-19 vaccine R&D, and capital 
expenditures in connection with the manufacture and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines.
From day one, Pfizer’s strategy to address COVID-19 has been anything but business 
as usual. Our goal has been and will continue to be scaling capacity to provide enough 
COVID-19 vaccine doses on an equitable basis to reach all who choose it. On the R&D 
front, we considered the social impact of the vaccine in the Phase 3 clinical trial R&D 
process, which included a diversity of countries, diversity in race and ethnicity, and 
diversity in age categories.  Given the impact of the pandemic on people living in 
low- and middle-income countries and the need to bolster public health systems, we 
believe directing resources towards these COVID-19 investments qualified under the 
International Capital Market Association’s Social Bond Principles.   
Demand for ESG bonds has surged, following the increased investor focus on 
environmental issues and economic inequality. In 2020 there was $800 billion in global 
sustainable debt issuance. That figure more than doubled in 2021 to $1.6 trillion, 
including $530 billion in sustainability-linked loans and bonds.1 Pfizer’s two Sustainability 
Bonds issuances enabled us to publicly highlight our efforts in the ESG space.  The latest 
issuance also allowed us to capitalize on the continued strong demand for ESG-themed 
debt amongst fixed income investors, with a number of major investors upgrading their 
internal ESG ratings on Pfizer based on the bond marketing materials.    
Further embedding an ESG discipline in our financing strategy, in 2021, we became the 
first U.S. biopharmaceutical company to include ESG Key Performance Indicator (KPI)-
linked metrics in our $7 billion, 5-year revolving credit facility.  The metrics specifically 
focus on our corporate goals to reduce carbon emissions at our locations around the 
world, as well as promoting more diversity in leadership among women globally and 
minorities in the U.S.  
Pfizer’s strategic focus on creating more opportunities to advance diversity, equity, and 
inclusion across our workforce and those with whom we do business extended to our 
financial strategy, and in 2021, we expanded our financing initiatives through capital 
market activities and money market fund investments, which aim to support women, 
minority and disabled veteran-owned firms.Financing for a Sustainable Future
Embedding our commitment to ESG into our corporate and financial strategies Treasury
1    Sustainable Debt Issuance Breezed Past $1.6 Trillion in 2021; BloombergNEF, Bloomberg, L.P., January 12, 2022
Allocation of proceeds for the August 2021 Sustainability Bond was up to $1 billion which was fully 
allocated as of year-end 2021
Impact StoriesPfizer 2021 ESG Report19
Post Issuance Transparency 
To the extent that 2020-2021 was about putting 
ESG in the spotlight, 2022 is likely to be about 
bringing accountability center stage. Pfizer is 
committed to post-issuance transparency by 
measuring and reporting on the impact we 
have on society and the environment resulting 
from investments we make with Sustainability 
Bond proceeds. 
We aligned our ‘use of proceeds’ from the 
March 2020 $1.25 billion Sustainability Bond 
to several relevant United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and targets, 
including SDGs 3, 6, 7, 9, and 12. More details of 
the impacts our investments are having can be 
found on pages 20 , 21 and 22 .Treasury
Financing for a Sustainable Future
— Continued
Impact Stories1    Refer to Sustainalytics 2nd Party Opinion  of our Bond Framework for more informationPfizer 2021 ESG Report20
Global Health and Social Impact
Proceeds from the March 2020 Sustainability Bond are helping manage the company’s 
work to increase access to Pfizer’s medicines and vaccines, especially among underserved 
communities, and strengthen healthcare systems. Pfizer has allocated $270 million of the 
Sustainability Bond proceeds to replenish The Pfizer Foundation, a charitable organization 
established by Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions that works to help address the 
challenges of a complex and evolving global health landscape. 
Given that infectious diseases are responsible for an estimated seven million deaths 
annually , are a leading cause of disability, and often perpetuate the cycle of poverty, The 
Pfizer Foundation is focused on accelerating innovative solutions and improving health 
systems to help address the urgent threat of infectious diseases through its Infectious 
Disease (I.D.) Impact Initiative.
• The Pfizer Foundation is working with Save the Children in Kenya to address 
pneumonia, the leading cause of preventable death in children worldwide. The 
partnership works to help ensure children receive high quality routine immunizations 
and equip healthcare workers with tools to help improve child health services.  
• Also in Kenya, The Pfizer Foundation is partnering with AMPATH to help address 
antimicrobial resistance (AMR) by improving healthcare worker capacity to generate 
reliable data to inform clinical practice and improve infectious disease care.  
• In Ghana, The Pfizer Foundation is working with PharmAccess to help improve 
the quality and availability of essential medicines by using digital tools to improve 
the supply chain and identify substandard or counterfeit products that can drive 
antimicrobial resistance (AMR).  
• In Indonesia, The Pfizer Foundation is partnering with Jhpiego to help strengthen 
long-term capacity, improve primary care and upskill healthcare workers to reduce 
childhood mortality and support government efforts to advance universal health 
coverage.  
• In Uganda, The Pfizer Foundation is working with World Vision to contribute to 
reductions in childhood mortality by strengthening community-level prevention, 
diagnosis, and treatment to improve access to quality care.  
• In 2020, The Pfizer Foundation launched ‘Innovation Awards in Community Health,’ a 
new program in partnership with Direct Relief to support innovative approaches to 
help improve infectious disease education, screening, testing, treatment, and care 
through federally qualified health centers and safety clinics in the U.S.As the burden of infectious disease grows, particularly among underserved communities, 
local innovators are bringing new and creative thinking to the fight against these threats. 
By partnering with civil society, governments, and other private sector organizations, 
we can help expedite the development of solutions that help address these healthcare 
inequities.
The Pfizer Foundation’s Global Health Innovation Grants (GHIG) program, which is part 
of the Infectious Disease (I.D.) Impact Impact Initiative, provides funding and technical 
support to health-focused entrepreneurs and social enterprises in Africa, Latin America, and 
Asia. Initiatives seek to address systemic challenges through training for health providers, 
implementation of clinics in remote areas, establishing digital health access and more.Treasury
Financing for a Sustainable Future
— Continued
A Save the Children staff 
member reviews information on 
a vaccine vial with a sub-country 
medical officer. CREDITS: Save The 
Children
Impact StoriesPfizer 2021 ESG Report21
Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Action Fund
Approximately 700,000 people die around the world each 
year from AMR, and the burden is expected to surge in 
the coming years: as many as 10 million people could die 
annually from AMR by 2050. 
There is broad consensus among governments, academia, 
industry, and public health agencies that the world urgently 
needs new antibiotics. The creation of the AMR Action Fund 
represents one of the most significant and collaborative 
steps taken to date to address the problem. 
In 2020, Pfizer pledged $100 million to support the 
AMR Action Fund, a collaboration of more than 20 
biopharmaceutical companies that aims to bring two to 
four new antibiotics to patients by 2030. Pfizer plans to 
use proceeds from the Sustainability Bond to invest $20 
million over 5 years. The AMR Action Fund, which includes 
a representative from Pfizer on its Board of Directors, is 
the world’s largest public-private partnership supporting 
antibiotic R&D. The Fund expects to invest approximately 
$1 billion in the coming years in clinical-stage biotechs 
developing antibiotics and other anti-infectives that 
target World Health Organization and Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) priority drug-resistant 
pathogens. These investments are expected to help bring 
novel antibiotics to market and, importantly, re-establish 
an innovation ecosystem to support long-term antibiotic 
development. 
In recent months, the Fund has taken critical steps toward 
operationalizing, including appointing a CEO, a board 
chair, and an independent scientific advisory board that 
will evaluate the global health impact and scientific merit 
of potential investments. The Fund expects to make its first 
round of investments in early 2022, and it will continue 
participating in high-profile global health and policy events 
to sound the alarm on the AMR crisis and build support for 
appropriate solutions.  Sayana® Press
An estimated 190 million women of reproductive age 
worldwide would like to delay or prevent pregnancy but are 
not using any method of contraception.  
Pfizer Inc. and a consortium of partners are part of a public-
private collaboration to broaden access to Sayana® Press, 
Pfizer’s long-acting, injectable and reversible contraceptive. 
The all-in-one prefilled, single-use, auto-disable system 
eliminates the need to prepare a needle and syringe. It also 
allows the contraceptive to be administered by a health 
worker outside of a clinical setting, or it can be self-injected 
if approved locally and after health care worker instruction.  
Because of its unique contraceptive delivery technology – 
enabling the product to be compact, discreet, and easily 
transportable – Sayana® Press can be provided in low-
resource, non-clinic settings, potentially transforming the 
way in which women can access and receive their preferred 
method of contraception.  
Pfizer completed its investment in 2021 to establish a new 
automated filling line for the Uniject™ injection system, 
which delivers the contraceptive. In total, Pfizer allocated 
$39 million from the bond proceeds to fund the capital 
expense. Once operational, this new filling line will allow 
for capacity to scale from 23 million units per year to up 
to 30 million units per year. The new automated filling line 
will undergo process validation and EU regulatory review in 
2022, and is expected to enter into commercial production 
in 2023.Treasury
Financing for a Sustainable Future
— Continued
Impact StoriesPfizer 2021 ESG Report22
Environmental Investments
Aligned with Pfizer’s ongoing commitment to limit the 
environmental impact of our operations, the Sustainability 
Bond launched in March 2020 included planned investments 
in environmental projects.  
The Bond was confirmed as aligned with the four core 
components of the Green Bond Principles 2018 (GBP 2018) 
and Social Bond Principles 2018 (SBP 2018) by Sustainalytics. 
As of December 31, 2021, $401 million in net proceeds 
from the Sustainability Bond issuance have been allocated 
to environmental projects supporting green design and 
construction of new office and manufacturing facilities.  
Through the application of proceeds from the 2020 
Sustainability Bond, Pfizer is designing a new multi-product 
API manufacturing facility in Tuas, Singapore. Design 
priorities include integration of systems and technologies 
to increase energy efficiency and enable effective energy 
demand management. The design is being informed through 
identification of the largest energy consuming systems and 
processes enabling evaluation of opportunities for reduction 
of electrical and thermal loads. This analysis includes use of 
benchmarking studies to identify good practices, including 
incorporation of a comprehensive metering infrastructure 
facilitating early investigation and action of energy demand 
changes. Currently the Tuas project is in the detailed design 
phase and is on track for completion in 2023.  
The proceeds are also being used to advance sustainable 
design principles in Pfizer’s new corporate headquarters 
in Hudson Yards, New York City. This new Pfizer facility is 
being designed to meet or exceed the Gold level of two 
independent certification standards including the US 
Green Building Counsel (USGBC) Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design (LEEDv4) standard and the 
International WELL Building Institute (IWBI) WELLv2 Pilot Standard. The design includes maximizing the use of 
natural lighting, reducing lighting power demand 30% 
below the LEEDv4 baseline, water use management 
through incorporation of low flow plumbing fixtures, and 
enabling effective energy management through installation 
of advanced energy metering and energy performance 
modeling. Construction of the new facility is expected to be 
completed by end of 2022. In addition to the Use of Proceeds from the Sustainability 
Bond, please refer to the ‘E’ section for further information 
about other environmental initiatives Pfizer is progressing to 
help limit environmental impact.
Future Impact Reporting
Pfizer is committed to measuring progress in the impact our 
investments are making on society and the environment. 
Due to the long-term nature of certain investments, we plan 
to continue to report on progress in deploying the capital, 
completion of the projects, and the impact on society.Treasury
Financing for a Sustainable Future
— Continued
As of December 31, 2021, $401 
million in net proceeds from the 2020 
Sustainability Bond issuance have 
been allocated to environmental 
projects supporting green design 
and construction of new office and 
manufacturing facilities.
Impact Stories1    Some figures may not add due to roundingPfizer 2021 ESG Report23
The pillars of our strategy include:
Build A More Inclusive Colleague Experience  
Build A More Inclusive Colleague Experience focuses on improving diversity and fostering 
belonging for all colleagues across the talent lifecycle, from potential recruits and part-
time employees to full-time colleagues and contractors. We also aim to foster belonging 
by connecting colleagues in a more meaningful and authentic way, reducing barriers 
to equity and creating a culture that celebrates all. In a first for Pfizer, we hosted two 
listening sessions in 2021 following the Afghanistan refugee crisis in August and during 
two high profile U.S. court trials in November (Kyle Rittenhouse and Ahmaud Arbery). 
Over 500 colleagues attended and the discussions included allyship, Muslim bias, how to 
have difficult conversations with empathy, and other topics where people were able to 
express their views respectfully. These global safe spaces are one example of how we are 
institutionalizing activities that support our people.   
Advance Equitable Health Outcomes  
Advance Equitable Health Outcomes focuses on current and future patients, as well as 
those who impact and influence their lives and healthcare decisions. We will conduct 
inclusive research by ensuring our R&D activities, including disease priorities and clinical 
trials, reflect the diversity of the communities we serve. We believe that we can help 
improve health outcomes by preventing, identifying, treating, and/or mitigating disease 
drivers that disproportionately impact underserved populations. Our goal is to remove 
barriers to access by increasing access and affordability for patients in historically 
underserved communities. Advancing equitable health outcomes starts with increasing 
diversity in our trials and considering access from early research and development through 
pre-launch and commercialization.   
Transform Society with External DEI Partnerships  
Transform Society with External DEI Partnerships focuses on partners and suppliers we 
work with, as well as the broad set of stakeholders we engage with to impact society. We 
believe that working with diverse suppliers will empower underrepresented communities 
through opportunity and education. We aim to contribute towards a more equitable society 
by partnering to deploy capital, colleague volunteer hours, and know-how to amplify 
equity initiatives and help make the world a more equitable place. Over 8,000 colleagues 
volunteered more than 43,700 hours in 2021 and donated $16.7 million together with the 
Pfizer Foundation.Refreshing Our DEI Strategy  
Continuing to prioritize our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion throughout our businessDiversity, Equity and Inclusion
Pfizer’s vision is to be a best-in-class organization that embeds diversity, equity, 
and inclusion (DEI) into our workplace and our purpose. To bring our vision to life, 
we undertook a review of our DEI strategy and updated the strategy, priorities and 
governance model in 2021.  
We used the opportunity to “embed DEI into our DNA” with this updated approach, 
working together with our Enterprise Colleague Resource Groups and leadership 
across the business to develop the new approach. The updated overarching DEI 
vision is supported by clear roles and accountabilities, alignment of our business, and 
transparent planning to track our progress against measurable outcomes.  
Our refreshed approach is outcomes-focused and revolves around three key 
stakeholder groups and pillars, which create a strong foundation to develop an 
inclusive workplace for all. Our goals with this structure are to improve diversity, 
foster belonging, aim to conduct inclusive research, improve health outcomes, remove 
barriers to access, improve partner diversity and contribute to a more equitable society. 
Impact StoriesPfizer 2021 ESG Report24
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
HEALTH EQUITY CANNOT BE ACHIEVED WITHOUT RESEARCH EQUITY  
At Pfizer we recognize that in order to better understand individuals’ health needs and the impact of our medicines across all people, our 
research activities must represent diverse communities and the diseases we aim to address. That’s why we’re working diligently to close the 
gap in health disparities in minority and underserved populations by applying medical, scientific, and translational expertise to do more 
precise and targeted disease management and achieve greater equity in research. 
In November 2021, Pfizer launched the Institute of Translational Equitable Medicine, or ITEM, under the Office of the Chief Medical Officer. 
Our vision for ITEM is to achieve health equity by preventing, treating, and identifying disease drivers that disproportionately impact 
underserved and minority populations nationally and globally. We believe there are gaps in applying scientific knowledge to diseases, and 
inefficiencies in recognizing unmet clinical needs that ought to inform fundamental research. Our goal is to use data to help us understand 
the drivers of health inequities, and how our scientific discoveries can meet the needs of underrepresented and minority patients. 
To that end, the institute’s initiatives will span three key dimensions: research, development, and medical activities leveraging science, 
data, and translational expertise to close gaps in health disparities. ITEM will strive to integrate equity across our end-to-end development 
pipeline, by delivering on the following key objectives:  
• Directing our research to understand the root cause of healthcare disparities in diseases across our development portfolio 
• Identifying new targets of diseases that are inclusive of underrepresented minorities, and for the benefit of all populations 
• Amplifying precision medicine by including minorities and identifying root causes of disparities 
• Collaborating with colleagues across Pfizer to enhance key initiatives focused on patient centricity, health equity, and social 
determinants of health.  
• Engaging and partnering with the communities that are most impacted by the inequity 
In the drive to achieve health equity, there is always more work to be done. We are passionate about embedding equity at the very 
beginning of our R&D process, and every step along the way. Our progress on our equity commitments and programs will be measured against 16 outcome metrics and 35 key initiatives. We are focused on 
operationalizing this new strategy and tracking progress against our metrics while also establishing other key performance indicators to hold us 
accountable and to ensure our work is having a meaningful impact on society. Our aim is to embed our value of equity with our people/colleagues, 
patients, and our society by ensuring they are seen, heard, and cared for.    
Learn more about our diversity and belonging efforts, inclusive research, and partnerships work in the Social section of the report. 
Impact StoriesRefreshing Our DEI Strategy
— ContinuedAs planetary health impacts public health, we are committed to limiting our impact on the environment and the climate. Our company purpose – 
Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives – guides our environmental priorities, with a focus on impact reduction, conservation of resources and 
the reduction of waste arising from our operations. 
Climate Change
 Our 2030 Climate Ambitions
 Reducing Emissions From Our Operations
 Accelerating Action Across Our Supply Chain
 Proactive External Engagement
 Understanding How Climate Change Could Impact Our Business
Sustainable Medicines
 Pharmaceuticals In The Environment
 Waste
 Water Stress26
29Environment
How our approach 
to environmental 
sustainability supports 
the SDGsIndustry, Innovation, and Infrastructure
We promote resilient and sustainable 
infrastructure, scientific research and 
innovation.
Responsible Consumption and Production
We aim to achieve environmentally 
sound life cycle management and adopt 
sustainable practices
Climate Action
Through our goals we are taking urgent 
action to combat climate change and its 
impacts.
More information on the SDGs here .
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report26
 EnvironmentClimate ChangeEnvironment
Climate change has the potential 
to impact public health in a myriad 
of ways. As a biopharmaceutical 
company, Pfizer is uniquely 
positioned to help address the 
global health challenges resulting 
from climate change. We’re 
applying the power of science 
and engineering to contribute to 
solutions to these challenges and 
innovating to bring products to 
the market that may tackle health 
conditions linked to climate, such as 
treatments for various vector and 
waterborne diseases.Our 2030 climate ambitions
Pfizer is dedicated to becoming carbon neutral across our internal operations by 2030. Through our fourth-generation greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emission reduction targets, approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in February 2021 as aligned with a 1.5⁰C 
trajectory, we are committed to: 
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report27
Reducing Emissions From Our Operations
Our manufacturing and R&D sites have long-
term environmental sustainability masterplans to 
reduce impact, including actions ranging in scale 
and complexity. We seek opportunities to design 
new facility or renovation projects with reduced 
environmental impact (such as energy consumption, 
water usage and waste management) so we can 
deliver greener buildings. For example, we aim to 
replace equipment at end-of-life with energy-efficient 
alternatives. We invest in no/low carbon technologies 
at our sites and in contractual agreements that enable 
sourcing of clean energy from renewable sources. 
We also undertake process enhancements within our 
product manufacturing to reduce the number of steps 
and resources required. 
In October 2021, Pfizer entered into a virtual power 
purchase agreement (PPA) with Vesper Energy 
(Vesper). Under this 15-year agreement, Vesper will 
deliver 310 megawatts (MW) of renewable energy to 
the grid from the Hornet Solar project in west Texas 
beginning in 2023. Once operational, we expect 
Pfizer’s North American purchased electricity needs, 
which comprise approximately 50% of electricity use 
globally, will effectively be met through solar energy. 
We are currently working to establish a virtual 
PPA in Europe, which represents approximately 
16% of our global electricity footprint, and aim to secure renewable energy certificates to address the 
remainder of our purchased electricity by 2025. As 
outlined by our goals and demonstrated through our 
commitment to RE100, we expect electricity generated 
by our operations will be transitioned to renewable 
sources by 2030. We plan to address any residual 
emissions through high-quality and verifiable offsets.
Accelerating Action Across Our Supply Chain
Pfizer’s scope 3 (value chain) GHG footprint is more than 
four times that associated with the company’s direct 
operations. We recognize action is needed throughout 
our value chain to address the complex threat of climate 
change. The procurement of goods and services, 
essential to producing medicines and vaccines, is the 
most significant contributor to our scope 3 emissions. 
Therefore, we are urging all our suppliers to commit to 
ambitious, science-based GHG reduction targets and 
have integrated environmental criteria in our supplier 
sourcing, contracting, and performance management 
processes. We are asking our suppliers to establish 
their GHG baseline no later than the end of 2022 and 
to set reduction targets aligned with SBTi guidance 
for their scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by the end of 
2025. In 2021, Pfizer was recognized as a CDP Supplier 
Engagement Leader for the fourth consecutive year for 
our work to measure and reduce environmental risks in 
our supply chain.   
Pfizer is proud to be part of Energize , a first-of-its-kind 
collaboration launched in November 2021 between 10 
global pharmaceutical companies to engage suppliers 
in decarbonization of the pharmaceutical value chain 
through renewable energy procurement. The program, 
which is designed and delivered by Schneider Electric, 
will enable pharmaceutical suppliers to learn more 
about renewable energy adoption and contracting. 
This will offer suppliers—which may not otherwise 
have the internal resources or expertise available—the 
opportunity to participate in the market for PPAs.Environment
— Continued
In 2021, Pfizer was recognized as 
CDP Supplier Engagement Leader 
for the fourth consecutive year for 
our work to measure and reduce 
environmental risks in our supply 
chain.
EnvironmentPfizer 2021 ESG Report28
Proactive External Engagement
Voluntary measures, such as those being taken by Pfizer 
and many other companies around the world, often offer 
the greatest opportunity for companies to design innovative 
solutions that work best for their particular situation, 
product range, and investment timelines. Tackling climate 
change, however, will require action from all parties across 
all sectors, and Pfizer urges governments both in the 
U.S. and abroad to establish ambitious climate policies to 
stabilize global temperature rise at 1.5 degrees.  
For additional information on Pfizer’s climate action 
program, please see our: 
• Climate Change Position Statement 
• 2021 CDP Climate Change Response
Understanding How Climate Change Could 
Impact Our Business
We are committed to transparency in evaluating the risks 
and opportunities that climate change may present to 
our business. To meet this commitment, we incorporate 
the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) framework into our enterprise risk management 
governance process and voluntary report aligned with TCFD 
recommendations. See our TCFD Response on page 76 .  Environment
— Continued
Wind turbine at Puurs, Belgium Pfizer site
EnvironmentPfizer 2021 ESG Report29
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
Pharmaceuticals in the environment is the signature 
environmental issue for our industry. We are 
committed to limiting environmental impact of 
discharges from manufacturing processes and 
and we participate in the Pharmaceutical Product 
Stewardship Work Group (PPSWG) in the United 
States and MEDSdisposal in Europe to enable proper 
disposal of unused medicines.
Recognizing the threat to human health from 
antimicrobial resistance (AMR), we have a significant 
focus on antibiotics. The AMR Industry Alliance 
(AMRIA) report   demonstrates greater transparency 
and progress by the Alliance. Pfizer’s progress 
in driving a responsible manufacturing strategy, including risk assessments against published 
science-based discharge targets (Predicted No Effect 
Concentrations), was positively recognized through 
both the 2020 and 2021 Access to Medicine AMR 
Benchmarks. We remain committed to our goal of 
meeting industry targets for antibiotics by 2025. 
Pfizer is also leading the development of an industry 
standard with the sponsorship of AMRIA. Once the 
standard is finalized, the next step is to create a 
certification scheme, supporting the standard, to 
further demonstrate responsible manufacturing of 
antibiotics. We intend to certify our antibiotics to this 
standard. Environment
— Continued
Pfizer has a long history of using the concepts of green chemistry and promoting them across the industry. Through scientific innovation we aim to design 
more efficient processes that can reduce the environmental impact of our medicines throughout the product life cycle.
To support environmental footprint reduction efforts, Pfizer is conducting life cycle assessments (LCAs) across our small molecule, large molecule, and device portfolios. Guided by these 
assessments, we are working to define environmental sustainability criteria across the product lifecycle. 
For example, through LCAs we have determined 70% to 90% of the carbon footprint of our small molecule products is associated with the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical 
ingredients (API), while the remainder is attributed to packaging, excipients, and other elements. Many factors contribute to the carbon footprint of API: manufacturing equipment, number 
of process steps, route efficiency and use of higher intensity materials such as precious metal catalysts used in the manufacturing process. Organic solvents commonly employed to allow the 
necessary conditions for chemical reactions to progress represent one of the most significant contributors to the API carbon footprint. 
We continue to evaluate ways to reduce the environmental impact of our products through the use of new technology, application of green chemistry, and solvent recycling and reuse. Sustainable Medicines
EnvironmentPfizer 2021 ESG Report30
Waste
Among the priorities of sustainable medicines design work is 
the minimization of waste. We pursue process improvements 
in our existing manufacturing operations through next-
generation design projects. In addition, our manufacturing 
sites look for opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle other 
materials. Pfizer uses a metric that encourages the hierarchy 
of control of handling waste: reduce, reuse, recycle, disposal. 
Each site has targets to improve the circularity of their waste 
and we benchmark our performance against others in our 
industry.
Water Stress
The availability of clean water is a basic human need globally 
and must be addressed locally. Our recently published Water 
Stewardship position statement describes our efforts to be 
good stewards of water with a particular focus on water 
stressed areas. To learn more about our efforts, see our 
position statement.   CASE STUDY: KALAMAZOO SOLVENT RECOVERY 
Our Kalamazoo, Michigan site operates a solvent recovery facility. Distillation columns recover spent solvent blends which are 
then reused in onsite manufacturing processes or are sold for reuse by other manufacturers. During calendar year 2021, the 
Kalamazoo site recovered more than 50% of the total quantity of solvents used in its production operations thereby reducing 
the amount of solvent purchased and waste sent to off-site disposal. The site continues to evaluate opportunities to increase 
spent solvent reuse.
Environment
— Continued
TRACKING OUR PROGRESS   
Total hazardous and nonhazardous waste generation de -
creased by 18% in 2021 compared to 2020. We continue to 
focus our efforts on waste minimization and, where waste 
can’t be avoided, identifying options for reuse or recycling.
We work to find beneficial uses for materials we can’t reuse 
and have shared some examples of success in the following 
case study.  
TRACKING OUR PROGRESS   
Water withdrawal in 2021 was 15% lower than 2020, and water 
discharges for the same period decreased 18%. Pfizer’s water 
consumption in 2021 was 14% of water withdrawal, a 2% 
increase compared to 2020. 
EnvironmentThe COVID-19 pandemic continues to introduce uncertainty and fluid challenges, heightening our business imperative to harness scientific 
innovation to help create a healthier, more equitable world for all. While we are continually redoubling our efforts to try to stay one step ahead 
of COVID-19 as it evolves, we remain focused on helping to address the burden on individuals, their families, and communities from other equally 
debilitating infectious and chronic diseases. Through our partnerships and programs, we aim to expand access to our breakthrough medicines and 
vaccines, particularly among underserved communities. Our societal priorities extend to people across the globe and within our own workforce and 
supply chain, as we invest in our human capital and work to advance diversity, equity and inclusion.  
Innovation and Global Health
 Product Innovation
 Equitable Access and Pricing
 Healthcare Infrastructure
 Patient-Centric Design
Human Capital
 Colleague Engagement
 Colleague DEI
 Colleague Resource Groups
 Opportunity Parity
 Partnerships
 Pay Equity
 Colleague Growth and Development
 Health, Safety and Wellbeing
 Our Pandemic Response32
 
37Social
How our approach to social 
issues supports the SDGsGood Health and Well-Being
We aspire to ensure health and well-being 
for all at all ages through equitable access to 
medicines and vaccines.
Gender Equality
We aim to end discrimination against women, 
ensure equal opportunities for leadership and 
access to reproductive health.
Decent Work and Economic Growth
We promote inclusive and sustainable 
economic growth, employment, and decent 
and safe working environments.
Reduced Inequalities
We empower and promote the social and 
economic inclusion of all, irrespective of age, 
sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion 
or economic or other status.
Partnerships for the Goals
We are working to create new partnerships 
to help attain relevant sustainable 
development goals.
More information on the SDGs here .Pfizer 2021 ESG Report32
 SocialInnovation and Global HealthSocial
The global health landscape continues to face a crisis of unprecedented dimensions. The COVID-19 pandemic has not only reversed progress made in 
the well-being and longevity of humanity, but the duration and future course of the pandemic remains unknown. Also uncertain are the implications 
for individuals suffering from other equally debilitating and deadly diseases or conditions, from cancer to pneumonia, as health care providers are 
overwhelmed with COVID-19 patients and routine procedures are canceled or delayed. Innovation is among the most vital tools we can rely upon to 
help navigate these unchartered waters.  
Our colleagues have continued to work tirelessly to help address evolving impacts of COVID-19 in addition to persistent pre-pandemic infectious and chronic diseases. Established in 2018, 
our Infectious Disease (I.D.) Impact Initiative is Pfizer’s long-term global health commitment to redefine the way we fight infectious disease and help protect underserved people in the 
U.S. and around the world from deadly threats. But we realize we cannot overcome global health challenges alone. Partnerships, whether it be among private entities or through public-
private means, are more critical than ever before. 
Product Innovation
True to Pfizer’s Purpose, our priority 
is bringing to market innovations that 
positively impact patients. Over the last 
decade, we’ve been taking a hard look at 
our productivity, sharpening our focus, and 
implementing changes across dimensions. 
From our deep understanding of biology, 
doubling down on new modalities, and 
efforts to empower our scientists for 
critical decision-making, Pfizer’s pipeline—
including 89 programs in development 
from Phase 1 through registration (as of 
February 8, 2022)—reflects the scientific 
opportunity brought about by our focus on 
improvement.  
Our approach is translating to results as we 
accelerate new medicines to market. We 
continue to see improvement in our Phase 2 success rate for new molecular entities 
(NMEs) on a five-year rolling average 
basis, as it quadrupled from 2015 to 2021, 
placing Pfizer among industry leaders. Our 
Phase 2 success has also helped us achieve 
significant improvement in our end-to-end 
clinical success rates. By the end of 2021, 
Pfizer achieved a 21% success rate for NMEs 
in clinical trials from first-in-human (FIH) 
trials to regulatory approval - a fourfold 
increase from 5% in 2015. This positions 
Pfizer with the potential to achieve one 
regulatory approval for every five new 
molecular entities entering the clinic 
for FIH trials. Significantly, most recent 
successes have been either first-in-class 
assets or innovations built on established 
mechanisms with novel scientific designs. 
Additionally, from 2017 to 2021, Pfizer 
reduced our FIH to Approval cycle time for new molecular entities by 14% (from 
9.4 years to 8.1 years). These reductions 
focus on operational activities—including 
strategy development, decision-making 
and clinical trial recruitment—where we can 
impact timeframes and find efficiencies. 
Pfizer is in line with the industry cycle time 
of approximately 8 years, with all planned 
development programs targeting less than 
7 years.  Our relentless focus on productivity results 
in greater social impact as we get more 
life-changing medicines into the hands of 
patients, and at a faster rate.  
The critical importance of reducing our 
cycle times and increasing our clinical 
success rate was evident in addressing 
the COVID-19 pandemic. We delivered a 
breakthrough COVID-19 vaccine, achieving 
Emergency Use Authorization (EUA), in 
record time with our partner BioNTech, 
as well as the Pfizer treatment Paxlovid™ 
(nirmatrelvir tablets and ritonavir tablets), 
which achieved FIH to EUA in less than one 
year.  By the end of 2021, Pfizer 
achieved a 21% success 
rate for NMEs in clinical 
trials from first-in-human 
(FIH) trials to regulatory 
approval - a fourfold 
increase from 5% in 2015.Pfizer 2021 ESG Report33
We scaled our COVID-19 vaccine manufacturing efforts and 
processes further, successfully delivering 3 billion doses 
worldwide as of February 2022, broadened regulatory 
authorizations to include children 5 years of age and up 
in several countries–with ongoing studies underway in 
younger age groups —and helped vaccinated individuals 
maintain vaccine protection through booster doses. We will 
continue to follow the science and closely track emerging 
variants. We know there is a great need to provide vaccine 
access to more people quickly— especially in low- and 
middle-income countries. More on these efforts can be 
found on pages 14-17.
In 2021, Pfizer‘s oral treatment for COVID-19, Paxlovid 
(nirmatrelvir and ritonavir), received authorization or 
approval in the U.S., Israel and other nations. Nirmatrelivir 
—the 3CL or main protease inhibitor in Paxlovid— was 
developed entirely in-house at Pfizer and is the first 
authorized oral 3CL protease inhibitor specifically designed 
to combat SARS-CoV-2. As an oral medication, it can 
be prescribed as an at-home treatment to help reduce 
hospitalization and deaths in patients at high-risk of 
developing severe illness, as well as potentially reduce the 
probability of infection following household exposure to 
COVID-19 among adults, subject to clinical success and 
regulatory authorization.   
We have entered into multiple agreements with countries 
around the world, and the U.S. government has committed 
to purchase 20 million treatment courses of Paxlovid in 
2022. In addition, as part of our comprehensive strategy to 
work toward equitable access to COVID-19 treatments for 
all people, particularly those living in the poorest parts of 
the world, Pfizer entered into a voluntary license agreement 
with the Medicines Patent Pool, a United Nations-backed 
public health organization. The agreement facilitates 
sharing of intellectual property for the production of generic 
versions of our oral COVID-19 treatment, with the goal of 
helping to improve access to COVID-19 treatments to 95 low- and middle-income countries.
Pfizer is very focused on applying the lessons from COVID 
to other programs – a philosophy we call “lightspeed” 
mentality. Following the successful launch of the mRNA 
COVID-19 vaccine, we took the next steps to potentially 
expand the application of the mRNA platform to diseases 
beyond COVID-19, leveraging the promise the platform 
holds for future breakthroughs. For example, Pfizer initiated 
a Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, 
and immunogenicity of an investigational mRNA vaccine 
against influenza. Beyond the flu, Pfizer plans to explore 
mRNA in other respiratory viruses, as well as expand to 
develop mRNA technology in oncology, shingles and genetic 
diseases. 
Also within the oncology space, we are continuing 
development of elranatamab, an investigational bispecific 
molecule for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Although 
there are several approved therapies for myeloma, most 
patients will inevitably progress, and there remains 
a significant unmet need for innovative treatment 
approaches. We are advancing the development of 
elranatamab as a monotherapy and in combination with 
other agents with the goal of improving outcomes for 
patients with this difficult-to-treat blood cancer. In addition, 
through an agreement with Arvinas Inc. and the acquisition 
of Trillium Therapeutics Inc. in 2021, we are investing in 
further potential breakthrough cancer therapies. This 
includes ARV-471, an investigational drug for breast 
cancer that selectively targets the estrogen receptor for 
degradation, and Trillium’s lead molecule, TTI-622, which 
targets a key immune checkpoint involved in blood cancers.
Additionally, our acquisition of Arena Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
will allow us to advance development-stage therapeutic 
candidates for a range of immuno-inflammatory diseases.
We continue to advance new vaccines against 
pneumococcal and meningococcal diseases, and explore the impact of applying groundbreaking technologies to help 
fight other infectious diseases where there have been no 
vaccine breakthroughs to date. For example, in 2021: 
• Pfizer initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating 
the efficacy, immunogenicity, and safety of its 
investigational respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine 
candidate for older adults.  
• Pfizer received FDA approval for PREVNAR 
20™ (Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine) 
protecting adults against serotypes responsible for the 
majority of circulating pneumococcal disease.Social
— Continued
SocialPfizer 2021 ESG Report34
Our commitment to developing these breakthroughs 
that change patients’ lives extends across our research 
and development (R&D) portfolio. U.S. FDA regulatory 
policies recognizing breakthrough innovation among new 
medicines offer pathways for faster review and approval. 
Relative to industry, Pfizer’s New Molecular Entity (NME) 
and Biologics License Application (BLA) approvals reflect a 
greater proportion of breakthrough therapy and expedited 
regulatory designations. Between 2017-2021, 45% of Pfizer 
NME and novel BLA applications approved by the FDA 
were designated as Breakthrough Therapies compared to 
30% of industry Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 
(CDER) and Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research 
(CBER) vaccine applications approved over the same period. 
Including other FDA designations involving expedited 
review between 2017-2021, 91% of Pfizer NME and novel BLA 
applications approved by the FDA achieved one (or more) 
expedited designations compared to 66% of industry CDER 
and CBER vaccine applications. 
A core pillar of our ongoing product innovation work 
is our efforts to help slow the spread of antimicrobial 
resistance (AMR) – one of the biggest threats to global 
health and a threat that has become even more prevalent 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. As one of only a few 
large pharmaceutical companies still active in R&D of 
anti-infective therapies, Pfizer is continuously looking for 
solutions that target newly emerging infections.  
Slowing the spread of AMR requires a multifaceted 
approach across R&D, policy changes and reimbursement 
reforms, innovative surveillance, and an emphasis on active 
stewardship. Therefore, our strategy extends to innovative 
opportunities and unique partnerships that help improve 
infrastructure, education and access, enable comprehensive 
tracking, and expand the R&D pipeline.  
Pfizer’s recognition in the 2021 Access to Medicine AMR 
Benchmark reflects our industry-leading approach to 
combat AMR. In addition to a large portfolio of existing 
solutions, we are advancing a pipeline of 13 projects between pre-clinical and marketing approval stages. To 
complement our diverse product portfolio, our ATLAS 
surveillance program – one of the largest in the world – 
provides public access to both antifungal and antibiotic 
resistance data, helping researchers and stakeholders 
better understand resistance patterns.  
Equitable Access and Pricing
Pfizer’s medicines and vaccines are created to help address 
the most challenging diseases of our time in areas of high 
unmet need. But those breakthroughs will not change 
patients’ lives if patients can’t access or afford them. So, 
in addition to driving scientific innovation, we are focused 
on developing transformative approaches to access, 
affordability and delivery, modernized for the 21st century 
and reflected in our pricing methods.  
In 2021, an estimated 424 million patients were treated and/
or vaccinated by a Pfizer product1, excluding our COVID-19 
vaccine and Paxlovid. In our 2020 ESG report, we included 
two metrics – Patients Treated (420+ million) and Patients 
Reached (58+ million) through access and affordability 
programs. We endeavored to streamline our reporting and 
clarify our impact by combining these two metrics into a 
single KPI to show the estimated totality of patients treated 
with Pfizer medicines and vaccines in 2021. As a result, 
the 2020 number is restated to reflect the new approach 
resulting in 399 million patients treated in 2020. (See table 
for detailed breakdown by distribution channel). Social
— Continued
In 2021, an estimated 1.4 billion 
patients were treated or vaccinated 
by a Pfizer product1 (424 million 
patients excluding our COVID-19 
vaccine and Paxlovid™)
1    Patients Treated metric uses Pfizer and third-party datasets to estimate overall patients treated. Patients treated includes Patients Reached, which totaled the estimated number of patients globally who received a Pfizer medicine or vaccine 
    through an alternate access or affordability program. See ESG KPI footnotes for more details.These figures exclude our COVID-19 vaccine and Paxlovid. This 
figure represent the potential number of patients globally who could 
be reached with a Pfizer medicine or vaccine through a program 
designed to facilitate access or affordability and traditional delivery 
channels, which could be private or public in nature based on the 
national health system. These metrics are calculated from Pfizer and 
third-party datasets. Despite contractual data standards, datasets 
maybe subject to uncertainty. It is possible that patients could be 
counted multiple times if they receive multiple Pfizer medicines 
through multiple channels.(there may be overlap with patients treated through Traditional 
Channels due to third-party data and methodologies)
SocialFor information on access to our COVID-19 vaccine and 
oral treatment, see our COVID-19 Impact Story .Pfizer 2021 ESG Report35
To reduce the number of people who cannot afford our 
medicines, we are implementing:
• Innovative financing mechanisms, including 
microfinancing, peer-to-peer lending, subscription 
models, flexible payment options and other innovative 
payment mechanisms to help reduce out-of-pocket 
costs for patients on a sustained basis. 
• Distribution and delivery mechanisms to simplify the 
drug supply chain to reduce “middle-men” and bring 
cost savings to patients at the pharmacy counter. 
• New technologies, such as telehealth applications that 
reduce barriers to care and digital wallets with the 
potential to pass rebates directly to patients at the point 
of sale, reducing out-of-pocket costs.
We set the price of our medicines and vaccines guided by the 
value our products bring to patients and society, achieving 
the broadest possible access; and with an understanding of 
the health systems and environment in which we operate. 
We partner and advocate with payers, governments and 
others in the health care system on behalf of patients to 
relieve their financial hurdles and provide access to our 
medicines at a cost they can afford.  
We offer patient assistance and donation programs when 
insurance or reimbursement systems fail to provide 
affordable access to our medicines. And, building on our 
30-year legacy of experience manufacturing biologics, our 
robust portfolio of biosimilars offers additional treatments at 
potentially lower costs. 
In addition to programs for patient affordability, we also use 
differential pricing models, considering the differing needs 
of populations, to advance equitable access by striving to 
ensure countries and patients with the least ability to afford 
medicines and vaccines pay a lower price compared to 
those with higher incomes. Our tiered pricing strategy also 
works within market, where prices are determined based 
on the specific circumstances of a given market or region. As part of this strategy, we engage in global commercial 
access partnerships with organizations like Gavi, the Vaccine 
Alliance, through which we committed to supply up to 930 
million doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine by 2027 
to infants and young children around the world. We’ve also 
invested in Sayana® Press to scale capacity of contraceptive 
delivery from 20 million units per year to 30 million.  
We aim to ensure health systems remain financially viable in 
situations where earlier coverage of the newest medicines 
is needed for optimal health. We work toward longer term 
solutions using flexible payment models, including risk-
sharing and value-based agreements. As of April 2021, Pfizer 
was engaged in 10 outcomes-based agreements globally, 
with another six in development. Alternatively, to achieve 
faster and broader access to our medicines, we have over 
150 financial-based agreements currently implemented or in 
development in emerging markets.   
Pfizer’s 2021 score in the bi-annual Access to Medicine Index 
jumped to No. 4, up from No. 11. Our top five positioning was 
driven largely by our access strategies in low- and middle-
income countries, including policies for proactive access 
planning, capacity building and income-tailored patient 
solutions.
Health Care Infrastructure
Pfizer acknowledges that healthcare is more than the 
development of medicines and vaccines. Governments, civil 
society and the private health sector play a critical role in 
facilitating access to health innovations by establishing and 
strengthening local healthcare infrastructure.  
As part of our commitment to advance health equity, The 
Pfizer Foundation’s ‘Accelerating Health Equity’ Grant 
Program seeks to support efforts to reduce health disparities 
and improve health outcomes in Black communities in the 
U.S. using a social determinants of health framework. Social
— Continued
INTERNATIONAL TRACHOMA INITIATIVE (ITI)
In 1998, Pfizer and the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation 
co-established the ITI, a nonprofit dedicated to 
eliminating trachoma, the leading infectious cause of 
blindness worldwide. The ITI manages Pfizer’s donated 
antibiotic and collaborates with governments and 
partners to implement the World Health Organization’s 
(WHO) recommended strategy for trachoma control.  
Our impact 
• Since 1998, more than 956 million doses of 
Zithromax® have been donated to ITI, and more 
than 184 million people in 40 countries were 
treated. 
• A 91% decrease in the number of people at risk for 
blindness from trachoma between 2002 and 2021. 
• Thanks to global partners’ efforts 11 countries: 
Cambodia, China, Iran, Ghana, Laos, Mexico, 
Morocco, Myanmar, Oman, Nepal, and The 
Gambia have eliminated trachoma as a public 
health problem with four other counties reporting 
elimination to the WHO.  
* As of November 2021 
SocialPfizer 2021 ESG Report36
Launched in 2020, the pilot program supported 10 
community-based organizations providing new health 
and livelihood services that address the leading causes of 
mortality and morbidity in Black communities including 
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and cancer.   
In 2020, The Pfizer Foundation launched ‘Innovation Awards 
in Community Health,’ a new program in partnership with 
Direct Relief to support innovative approaches to improve 
infectious disease education, screening, testing, treatment, 
and care. Through 11 Pfizer Foundation-funded projects 
with U.S. safety-net community healthcare providers, more 
than 297,000 people in vulnerable communities across 10 
U.S. states were reached through mobilization or outreach 
activities.2
Global health system strengthening  
To drive health access and affordability, Pfizer engages in 
initiatives and programs that target underserved communities 
and populations around the world.  
Since 2016, The Pfizer Foundation’s Global Health Innovation 
Grants (GHIG) program has provided funding and technical 
support to health-focused entrepreneurs and social 
enterprises in Africa, Latin America, and Asia. Initiatives 
address systemic challenges through training for health 
providers, implementation of clinics in remote areas, 
establishing digital health access and more. Since its launch, 
The Pfizer Foundation has provided $11.5 million to our 
partners who have helped treat 2.7 million patients, provided 
life-saving screening and education for 1.3 million patients, 
trained more than 10,000 healthcare staff and opened nearly 
700 new health centers around the world.  
Over the past few decades, the number of people living in 
displacement has grown, amplifying challenges to healthcare 
access. The Pfizer Foundation has long partnered with 
organizations like the International Rescue Committee, the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and others to help eliminate barriers 
to access and improve healthcare outcomes for refugees 
and other displaced populations. In 2020 and 2021, as the 
pandemic exacerbated health challenges around the world, we 
provided grants to these groups to support emergency health 
response efforts and the continuation of basic health services.
Patient-Centric Design
Pfizer is more committed than ever to ensuring 
the perspectives of patients are not only taken into 
consideration, but embedded into every facet of our work to 
help people live longer, healthier lives. From research and 
development to product access, we work hand-in-hand with 
patients, caregivers and patient advocacy groups. Through 
patient education programs and resources, public policy 
workshops, and patient advisory boards across Pfizer’s 
therapeutic areas, 2021 has seen continuously increasing 
engagement between our leadership and patient advocacy 
groups around the world. 
In 2021, Pfizer hosted its first ever global Patients in Focus, a 
week-long activation on the patient perspective. Under the 
theme “Patients are Our Why,” regional leaders from across 
the enterprise hosted 60+ events designed to share patient 
and caregiver stories that build Pfizer’s understanding 
of the needs of all patients, bring colleagues together to 
discuss patient-centric design, and showcase impactful 
patient advocacy efforts across the company. Over 38,000 
colleagues and 340 patient advocacy groups participated in 
Patients in Focus 2021.  
By way of grassroots programming and outreach, Pfizer 
continues to work with key groups across the U.S. to 
address health disparities among historically disregarded 
populations through its Multicultural Health Equity Collective 
(“The Collective” formerly known as the Multicultural Center 
of Excellence). Building upon the trust established with 
partner organizations, in 2021, the Collective placed special emphasis on providing partners with culturally relevant 
material through educational briefing sessions, to increase 
confidence in COVID-19 vaccines. In addition, we started 
a conversation on systemic racism in healthcare to help 
identify solutions to disparities. The Collective continues to 
partner with multicultural organizations on topics that are 
important to them, such as access to healthcare, diversity 
in clinical trials, health literacy and community support 
programs. Social
— Continued
REVOLUTIONIZING COVID-19 VACCINE DELIVERY WITH 
ZIPLINE 
In November 2021, Pfizer and logistics partner, Zipline, 
completed the first long-range drone delivery of authorized 
mRNA COVID-19 vaccines to the remote countryside of 
Ghana. The ultra-cold storage required for these vaccine 
strains meant pioneering a new model for delivery to low- 
and middle-income countries lacking the equipment and 
infrastructure to store and deliver these shots. The successful 
collaboration with Zipline allows for the distribution of 
approximately 50,000 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 
Vaccine in Ghana. In addition to financial support for the pilot 
program, Pfizer and BioNTech provided technical assistance 
and know-how specific to the management and storage of 
the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine at -90°C to -60°C. This 
partnership has paved the way for drone deliveries of all 
mRNA vaccines in Ghana. 
2    Reflects Dec. 2020-May 2021 data from the U.S. Direct Relief program
SocialPfizer 2021 ESG Report37
Human Capital
Part of our commitment to remain a company of choice is being an employer of choice. We strive to create a workplace where our people feel 
empowered to bring their whole selves to work and realize their full potential. We focus on integrating workforce, workplace, and work output by 
paying special attention to the health and wellness of our colleagues; prioritizing meaningful work that contributes to our purpose of Breakthroughs 
that Change Patients’ Lives; and fostering an environment where our people can thrive and grow.  
We engage our colleagues through every phase of their experience, bringing a people-centric approach to everything from recruiting, benefits and compensation, to growth, inclusion 
and communication.  
Colleague Engagement
To attract, develop and inspire the brightest 
talent, we aim to support our colleagues 
through moments that matter. We 
understand the importance of continuously 
listening and responding to colleague 
feedback, and our annual engagement 
survey, Pfizer Pulse, provides a forum for 
our colleagues to give structured feedback 
about their experience. Through this 
survey, we measure and track key areas 
of the overall colleague experience and 
equip leaders with actionable insights for 
discussion and follow up.  Regular topics in 
the survey include employee engagement, 
such as colleagues’ commitment to and 
advocacy for Pfizer; purpose, including 
how colleagues’ work connects with our 
company purpose; inclusion, such as having 
a climate in which diverse perspectives are 
valued; and growth, including the ability for 
all colleagues to gain new experiences that 
align with their individual career goals.     
We are proud that in 2021, on average 90% of colleagues reported feeling engaged, 
as measured by pride, a willingness to 
recommend Pfizer as a great place to work, 
and intent to stay. In addition, 92% agreed 
their daily work contributes to our purpose. 
Colleague DEI
Equity is a core value at Pfizer where every 
person deserves to be seen, heard, and 
cared for. In 2021, Pfizer made several 
advances in our approach to diversity, 
equity and inclusion (DEI): we announced 
a New Chief Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Officer, Ramcess Jean-Louis; our annual 
Global DEI Summit focused on allyship 
and the science behind inclusion; and we 
launched our refreshed Global DEI Strategy 
and Governance Structure.  
Our refreshed Global DEI Strategy and 
Governance Structure aims to further 
embed DEI into our workplace and our 
purpose through defined enterprise 
priorities and expectations, new roles and accountabilities, and outcomes tracking. 
The strategy was co-designed with our 
Enterprise Colleague Resource Groups 
(ECRGs) and cross-functional stakeholders 
across our business. It is built upon three 
pillars:
• Building a more inclusive colleague 
experience through representation 
and meaningful connections. 
• Advancing equitable health outcomes 
by evaluating our work through the 
lens of the communities we serve.
• Transforming society with external 
DEI partnerships, including deploying 
capital, engaging diverse suppliers and 
amplifying equity initiatives.  
With such a broad scope, leaders are 
responsible for various priorities under 
each pillar and teams are responsible for 
driving 35 key initiatives. Each priority 
has clear outcome metrics—a total of 
16—aligned to removing barriers to access and improving diverse representation for 
colleagues and partners. These metrics 
are agreed upon by our DEI Board prior to 
executing initiatives. It is critical that DEI is 
embedded in everything that we do.Social
— Continued
SocialPfizer 2021 ESG Report38
Colleague resource groups  
In 2021, we established an ECRG Council to enable regular 
sharing of best practices across our seven ECRGs—Global 
Asian Alliance, Global Black Community, DisAbility, Pfizer 
Women’s Resource Group, Out Pfizer Employee Network 
(OPEN), Pfizer Latino Community and Veterans in Pfizer, 
which act as the parent organizations for our local site 
Colleague Resource Group (CRG) chapters. Our more than 
100 global CRG chapters offer support, developmental 
opportunities, mentoring and networking opportunities to 
help members enhance their skills and advance their careers, 
while fostering community. Despite the pandemic, our 
CRGs continued to host virtual events with external experts 
and internal leaders to discuss equity, allyship, clinical trial 
diversity, and intersectionality with the intention to build 
bridges across demographics.  
Our CRGs contribute to a more diverse and inclusive 
environment through colleague discussions such as newly 
created Safe Space Listening Sessions in response to current 
events, and by helping to fuel our pipeline of diverse talent. 
In 2021, 72% of summer interns surveyed identified as 
representing an underrepresented group or disadvantaged 
background, far exceeding our goal of 50%. Within this class 
of students, 13 placements came directly from CRG referrals 
and another 48 resulted from our partnership with INROADS , 
a non-profit that seeks to develop and place talented under-
served young people in business and industry.
Partnerships  
We hire, grow, and empower diverse talent by partnering 
with external organizations that provide rich engagement 
opportunities with people of diverse backgrounds and 
experiences. In 2021, this included joining Tent’s Coalition for 
Afghan Refugees , signing a commitment  to help drive lasting 
change for the 1.3 billion people living with a disability 
around the world, and participating in McKinsey’s Black 
Leadership Academy Management Accelerator .  Our efforts and partnerships earned Pfizer industry 
recognition. We received 100% on the Human Rights 
Foundation Corporate Equality Index and Disability:IN 
Equality Index , and earned a 5-star rating in procurement 
and governance by the Hispanic Association on Corporate 
Responsibility . Additionally, Pfizer ranked #1 within the Drug 
& Biotech industry on Forbes’ “ Best Employers for Women ” 
list and #21 overall on Forbes’ “ Best Employers for Diversity ” 
list. Notably, we jumped 174 spots on the Financial Times 
annual Diversity Leaders  list to #38.Pay equity  
Our commitment to pay equity for all colleagues is based in 
our value of Equity and our intention to continue to build a 
diverse and inclusive workforce. In 2021, Pfizer announced, 
both internally and externally, the findings of a recognized 
compensation expert, which confirmed equitable pay 
practices at Pfizer for employees based on role, education, 
experience, performance and location. In terms of base pay, 
Pfizer pays our female colleagues globally at greater than 
99% (99.4%) of what we pay male colleagues. When looking 
at minority versus non-minority pay in the U.S., minorities 
are at dollar-for-dollar parity (100%) with the pay of non-
minorities. The study covered 71,100 colleagues globally, 
including our Executive Leadership Team (ELT).  
For the first time in 2021, Pfizer released median pay gaps 
for women globally and minorities in the U.S., measuring the 
distribution of pay among colleagues without accounting 
for any factors. As of the start of 2022, Pfizer’s pay equity 
study demonstrated the median pay for women globally was 
102.3% of the median pay of men, and the median pay for 
minorities in the U.S. was 85.5% of the median pay for non-
minorities.
In the UK, Pfizer has seen significant year-over-year progress 
in closing the median gender pay gap —the difference 
in average hourly pay for men and women aross our 
organization. In 2021, the median gender pay gap decreased 
2.7 percentage points to 7.5%.3 This fourth consecutive year-
over-year reduction is driven by our UK five-point Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion strategy. Introduced in 2019, it follows 
a test, learn and adapt approach and enables us to measure 
success and target action where it’s most needed.
In 2021, Pfizer’s efforts with pay equity secured an ‘A’ grade 
on the Arjuna Capital/Proxy Impact Racial and Gender Pay 
Equity Scorecard. We intend to continue to measure pay 
equity on an annual basis and to publicly release results.Social
— Continued
3    The analysis is based on the pay period in which the snapshot date of April 5, 2021 sits. These metrics r epresent our combined Pfizer UK figures. Under the U.K. Gender Pay Gap regulations, we are required to report our gender pay gap data for each
    separate legal entity that has at least 250 employees and therefore we have reported data for Pfizer Limited and Pfizer R&D UK Limited. A full copy of the report can be found at: https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk/Our 2025 Opportunity Parity Goals
By 2025, we aim to achieve global workforce parity of 47% for 
women at the VP level and above.
By 2025, we aim to achieve parity at the VP+ level for U.S. 
minorities by increasing our minority representation from 
19% to 32% and doubling the underrepresented population of 
African Americans/Blacks and Hispanics/Latinos.  
2021 Progress 
At the end of 2020, we reported that our representation for 
women at the VP level and above was 38.1%. By December 
2021, we have increased 3.4 percentage points to 41.5%. At 
the end of 2020, we reported that our representation for U.S. 
minorities at the VP level and above was 21.5%. By December 
2021, we have increased 3.5 percentage points to 25%.  Opportunity parity
SocialPfizer 2021 ESG Report39
Colleague Growth and Development
We are committed to helping our colleagues reach their 
full potential by rewarding both their performance and 
leadership skills, and by providing opportunities for growth 
and development. In 2021, we began redefining our growth 
strategy at Pfizer to promote non-linear development for 
all colleagues, set a transparent talent framework followed 
by all managers, and cultivated a sustainable pipeline of 
leaders through internal mobility. Championing personalized 
career journeys, Pfizer implemented a common language 
around growth —along with a guiding framework—to help 
colleagues identify the best growth experiences to unleash 
their full potential and deliver breakthroughs. The rollout 
also included various colleague tools and resources to 
encourage growth conversations and offer transparency on 
the sources of growth available to all colleagues.  
In addition to fostering an environment where all colleagues 
have an equitable opportunity to grow, we are committed 
to scientific talent development through various learning 
programs designed to give participants exposure to different 
scientific functions across Worldwide Research, Development 
and Medical (WRDM). Objectives include increased scientific 
and business acumen through broad exposure to WRDM: 
• Build and expand networks to promote cross-line 
knowledge-sharing and professional development. • Energize and engage critical WRDM talent in the broader 
objectives of the organization. 
• Provide insights into potential internal alternate career 
paths. 
• Provide WRDM line leadership with exposure to top 
talent throughout the organization.
Health, Safety, and Wellbeing
At Pfizer, protecting the health, safety and well-being of 
colleagues and contingent workers, all of whom are essential 
to delivering our business objectives, is an integral part of 
how we operate. Our Global Environment, Health & Safety 
(EHS) Policy and supporting standards outline our approach 
to assessment, evaluation, elimination, and mitigation of 
EHS risks across our operations globally. In addition, they 
facilitate colleague engagement in EHS thereby enabling 
continuous improvement.     
Each Pfizer colleague and contingent worker plays a 
crucial role in facilitating a culture of EHS excellence where 
improvements, ideas, suggestions, and opportunities are 
welcomed. Fostering this culture of interdependence with 
everyone looking out for each other enables Pfizer to meet 
its commitment to our patients.  
Through our annual EHS recognition program we recognize 
and celebrate actions taken by colleagues to implement 
or replicate innovative solutions that achieve measurable 
improvements in attaining an injury-free Pfizer. Examples 
of health and safety initiatives recognized in the past year 
include: 
• Implementation of an EHS auditor qualification 
program to increase line colleague engagement in EHS 
performance review at one of our manufacturing sites 
• Increasing effectiveness of response to hazard 
observations by empowering Safety Representatives 
to drive mitigation actions to completion at another 
manufacturing site.• Implementation of a targeted EHS Risk Reduction 
program with external API suppliers to drive closure of 
EHS observations identified through onsite audits  
• Development and launch of a new Biological Risk 
Assessment tool to increase hazard awareness  
Replication of such initiatives is a key mechanism in 
accelerating positive change to help colleagues and 
collaborators remain engaged and productive.
Our Pandemic Response
During 2021, pandemic preparedness and response 
continued to be a key focus to help ensure on-site workers 
at our commercial, manufacturing and research sites 
remained safe and healthy while continuing to support work 
from home arrangements for colleagues who can work 
remotely. A task force of senior leaders continues to oversee 
implementation of the company pandemic preparedness 
plan, setting expectations for precautions required at Pfizer 
sites including social distancing, face masks and sanitation. 
These precautions have been instrumental in protecting 
our workforce and helping ensure a continued supply of 
medicines and vaccines to patients.  During 2021, we: 
• Implemented a vaccination program for colleagues and 
their families in the U.S. and 23 other countries where 
employer vaccination programs were possible. Over 
150,000 doses have been administered as of the end of 
2021. 
• Partnered with Thrive Global, a wellness and 
organizational change initiative with a primary focus on 
colleague mental health and wellness.
• Provided 15 educational webinars and information 
sessions on mental health and wellbeing, nutrition, 
and work life balance through our employee assistance 
program (EAP) provider; included monthly wellness 
tips in the twice-monthly HR newsletter and distributed 
videos developed by internal experts to educate 
colleagues on vaccinations and combat vaccine 
hesitancy.Social
— Continued
Championing personalized career 
journeys, Pfizer implemented 
a common language around 
growth —along with a guiding 
framework— to help colleagues 
identify the best growth experience 
to unleash their full potential and 
deliver breakthroughs.
SocialWe behave ethically and thoughtfully in everything that we do, owning our responsibility to change lives for the better. As part of this responsibility, 
Pfizer prioritizes safety, quality and transparency in our operations. Our governance structure supports proactive business-led quality and 
compliance built around elements of effective risk management. To facilitate accountability, our Board of Directors is more involved than ever in the 
governance and oversight of our ESG strategy, as outlined in the following sections. 
Ethics, Transparency, and Quality
 Ethical Decision Making
 Laws and Regulations Compliance
 Open Door Culture and Investigations
 Transparency
 Safety and Quality
 Counterfeit Medicines
 Supply Chain Transparency
 Intellectual Property
 Clinical Trials
 Data Privacy and Protection
 Right To Health
 Political Contributions and Lobbying Activities
Accountability
 Right Incentives
 Board Of Directors and Board Committees
 Board Leadership Structure
 Governance of ESG
 Board Diversity and Independence41
49Governance
How our approach to 
governance issues supports 
the SDGsGood Health and Well-Being
We aspire to ensure health and well-being 
for all at all ages through equitable access to 
medicines and vaccines.
Gender Equality
We aim to end discrimination against women, 
ensure equal opportunities for leadership and 
access to reproductive health.
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
We operate to uphold justice, promote 
the rule of law, and develope ethical, 
transparent, and representative decision-
making.
More information on the SDGs here .
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report41
 GovernanceEthics, Transparency, QualityGovernance
Ethical Decision Making
Values-based decision making promotes accountability 
and helps ensure that integrity, quality, safety and ethics 
are foundational to all we do. Our Code of Conduct (The 
Blue Book) and related policies, procedures and training 
are designed to support these values, including courage, 
excellence, equity and joy. Policies governing colleague 
interactions with healthcare organizations, physicians, 
patients and other stakeholders are contained in the White 
Guide  for U.S. headquarters-based colleagues and the 
Orange Guide  for U.S. field-based colleagues. Pfizer also 
maintains a Global Policy on Interactions with Healthcare 
Professionals . We incorporate ethics and business integrity 
into internal performance evaluations, which are designed 
to enhance colleague accountability, including leadership 
performance with integrity. 
Laws and Regulations Compliance 
Pfizer’s ethics and compliance expectations represent a 
shared undertaking on the part of all colleagues. Pfizer is 
committed to conducting business responsibly, and acting ethically and in accordance with all applicable laws and 
regulations. We expect the same commitment to acting 
ethically and with integrity from suppliers, as well as from 
consultants, agents, representatives and other companies 
and individuals acting on our behalf, as well as those acting 
on their behalf (e.g., subcontractors), in connection with work 
for Pfizer.Pfizer’s compliance organization is led by our Chief Quality, 
Compliance & Risk Officer who reports directly to the CEO 
and is a member of the Executive Leadership Team, which 
is designed to ensure access to cross-functional leadership 
and sufficient resourcing. Pfizer’s ethics and compliance 
program is overseen by a dedicated Regulatory and 
Compliance Committee of the Board, which helps support 
impartiality and independence of the program. We regularly 
engage independent third parties to assess our ethics and 
compliance program against standards established by 
governments, rating agencies and industry best practices. 
In 2021, we conducted two independent compliance 
program reviews to assess program effectiveness and seek 
opportunities for continuous learning and enhancement. 
Our internal audit function has a systematic and regular 
audit process, and works with key stakeholders across 
the company to conduct our Enterprise Risk Management 
process that assesses on an annual basis our operations 
and risk management priorities, including, among others, 
those related to quality, compliance and ethical standards, 
responsible marketing, and anti-bribery / anti-corruption.At Pfizer, we have established values and clear expectations regarding how we achieve our purpose. We are committed to living our values and to 
acting with integrity. Our values help guide us in making decisions ethically, thoughtfully and responsibly, to help support our business to appropriately 
meet patient and societal needs.
The Regulatory and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our quality and compliance governance framework, including the business-led Quality & Compliance 
Committees across our core functions, which drive proactive risk management and accountability. This Committee’s oversight of healthcare quality and compliance includes business ethics, 
responsible product marketing, and compliance with anti-bribery / anti-corruption, transparency, product promotion and other applicable laws and regulations, in pursuit of advancing 
integrity and Pfizer’s purpose. Our leaders set the tone for our strong culture of acting with integrity in all we do and support a speak-up culture in which colleagues can raise concerns 
without fear of retaliation. Our patient-centric purpose and established culture of quality and safety are of paramount importance during this extraordinary time in history as we innovate and 
continue to deliver breakthroughs.  
Pfizer is proud to be named 
one of the World’s Most Ethical 
Companies by Ethisphere, a global 
leader in defining and advancing 
standards for ethical business 
practices. Pfizer’s purpose-
driven work and strong culture 
of ethics, integrity, sustainability, 
governance and community were 
critical to this recognition.Pfizer 2021 ESG Report42
Our quality and compliance governance framework is driven 
by a global, cross-functional approach built around the 
elements of effective compliance and risk management, 
including, for example:
• Culture: leaders are committed to and accountable for 
fostering a culture consistent with our values, and we 
incorporate ethics and business integrity into performance 
management frameworks
• Policies: clear, easy-to-understand policies and procedures 
provide guidance, including our principles-based Code of 
Conduct and our whistleblower policy to protect colleagues 
who raise concerns, outlined in our Code of Conduct. Our 
international anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and 
procedures are designed to ensure full compliance with 
the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and applicable 
international anti-bribery laws. Pfizer policy prohibits all 
forms of bribery and corruption, whether by colleagues or 
our business partners. Colleagues and business partners 
must never offer, promise, authorize, or provide a payment 
or benefit that is intended to improperly influence a 
government official, healthcare professional, or any other 
person, including commercial entities and individuals, in 
exercising their responsibilities
• Training: colleagues and certain third parties receive risk-
based, role-specific training on our Code of Conduct and 
other key areas, including ethical standards, responsible 
marketing and advertising practices, and anti-bribery / 
anti-corruption training, upon hire and regularly thereafter 
(normally every one to two years), to reinforce our policies 
and commitment to integrity. Our ethics and compliance 
training programs use multi-modal components to 
address different learning styles, maximize engagement, 
and reinforce training content. Our training program 
encompasses role-based scope of topics and depth of 
knowledge to drive training effectiveness
• Communications: messaging about ethics and integrity, 
including communications from leadership, culture 
campaigns, and creative use of various media, reinforces 
our focus on always doing things the right way and 
speaking up with any questions or concerns  • Risk Assessment: enterprise-level and tailored ethics and 
compliance risk assessments, including in the area of anti-
bribery / anti-corruption, conducted regularly throughout 
the year (on a market-by-market basis) and feeding into 
our annual Enterprise Risk Management process, are 
aimed at identifying and mitigating potential risks  
• Monitoring: live, continuous monitoring across key risk 
areas is designed to detect and remediate any potential 
non-compliance and seek opportunities for enhancement 
of our ethics and compliance program 
• Third Party Compliance: robust controls and processes 
are designed to evaluate and mitigate risk related to third 
parties we work with, including a formal global anti-bribery 
/ anti-corruption diligence process that includes screening, 
auditing, training, confirmation of policies (including 
bribery/corruption prohibitions) and monitoring of third-
party agents and intermediaries, and other risk-based 
compliance controls designed to ensure ethical business 
practices and compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations, including anti-bribery / anti-corruption laws
Quality and compliance committees for each of our core 
functional areas, as well as our Executive Compliance 
Committee (the highest-level internal compliance oversight 
body, composed of Pfizer’s executive leadership and chaired 
by the CEO) provide an innovative framework to advance 
business-led proactive risk management and drive clear 
accountabilities for leaders and colleagues to act with 
integrity in all that they do. The remit of the Executive 
Compliance Committee includes oversight of healthcare 
quality and compliance, business ethics, responsible product 
marketing, and compliance with anti-bribery / anti-corruption, 
transparency, product promotion and other applicable laws 
and regulations.
Open Door Culture and Investigations  
Leaders and management are dedicated to fostering a 
culture in which all colleagues can ask questions, raise 
concerns and report potential misconduct without fear of 
retaliation. We measure colleague comfort and awareness 
about raising concerns, including awareness of our whistleblower policy, through an anonymous culture survey 
sent to all colleagues annually. The results are used to focus 
our leadership communications, training and other proactive 
efforts to drive our ethical culture. 
Many channels exist for raising questions and reporting 
concerns, including the Compliance Helpline (third-party 
public hotline available by phone or web, with anonymous 
reporting where allowed under local law), the Compliance 
Division (through email, phone, fax and colleagues), 
management, and our Open Door Policy (whistleblower 
policy), which encourages colleagues to present ideas, ask 
questions and raise concerns. Retaliation against anyone 
who seeks advice, raises a concern, reports misconduct or 
provides information in an investigation is strictly prohibited 
by our policy that protects whistleblowers. In addition, our 
Office of the Ombuds is a resource to support colleagues 
with information and guidance to help them resolve work-
related issues.  
Pfizer takes reports of known or suspected violations of 
company policies and applicable law seriously; our goal is to 
respond promptly to all questions and reported concerns. 
We aim to identify and address any potential inappropriate 
conduct as early as possible, prevent future recurrences, and 
inform continuous improvement.  
We investigate all referable compliance issues (RCIs)—
significant potential, suspected or actual violations of law or 
policy. For RCIs where there is a substantiated violation, we 
institute individual discipline where appropriate, including 
measures such as coaching, warnings, and termination. Our 
compliance investigations process also includes analysis of 
the root cause of substantiated RCIs. After investigation, we 
work with accountable stakeholders to implement corrective 
and preventive actions. Pfizer has a process to escalate 
certain significant matters to the Executive Compliance 
Committee, the Regulatory and Compliance Committee and 
the Audit Committee of the Board.
GovernanceGovernance
— ContinuedPfizer 2021 ESG Report43
 GovernanceGovernance
— Continued
Transparency 
Pfizer is committed to the principle of transparency, disclosing 
our efforts that relate to issues of public interest. We uphold 
high ethical, scientific and medical standards in all our 
research and development activities and are committed to 
disclosing financial and other interests and relationships that 
may create apparent or perceived 41 conflicts of interest. 
These include areas such as funding for educational activities, 
the status of our U.S. pharmaceutical post-marketing 
commitments, our pipeline of experimental medicines, the 
registration and reporting of results of clinical trials, corporate 
political contributions in the U.S., federal and state lobbying 
activities, and disclosures of medical grants. 
Pfizer also reports to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services (CMS) payments and other transfers of value made to 
U.S.-licensed physicians and U.S. teaching hospitals.  In 2021, 
our commitment to transparency also included: 
• Adhering: Adheres to the “plain language results 
summary” initiative intended to make our clinical trial 
results and descriptions more understandable and 
accessible to a general audience;
• Posting: Posts all Pfizer clinical trial results to the U.S. 
National Library of Medicine’s clinicaltrials.gov website  
accessible to the public;
• Sharing: Share our positions on issues important to Pfizer 
and our industry; please see Report on Incongruencies;
• Communicating: Communicates more transparently 
around product quality and safety standards and KPI 
progress. 
Our efforts to combat COVID-19, including those to provide 
equitable and affordable access to COVID-19 vaccines 
and therapeutics for all, also demonstrates our continued 
commitment to transparency. 
• We maintained a dedicated COVID-19 information site 
on Pfizer.com to directly provide the public with ongoing 
COVID-19 news and information , including how Pfizer is 
responding to new variants. • We provided access to our plants and manufacturing 
process to National Geographic for a documentary 
feature on our COVID-19 vaccine. Watch Mission 
Possible: The Race for a Vaccine Online | Nat Geo TV 
(nationalgeographic.com ) 
Safety and Quality
At Pfizer, the highest priority is placed on the safety of our 
patients and the quality of our products. Our culture of integrity 
and accountability aims to ensure that each and every dose 
– of the billions we supply each year – is manufactured to the 
highest standards. Our safety and quality policies and processes 
reinforce our colleagues’ shared commitment to developing, 
manufacturing and supplying safe and effective vaccines and 
therapeutic medicines to patients around the world. 
A Foundation of safety & quality: A well-established quality 
management framework 
Pfizer’s Quality Management System (QMS) is designed to 
ensure compliance with all applicable quality and safety 
regulations, codes and standards, and provides a framework 
and common foundation when engaging in any activity 
that can directly or indirectly affect the health and well-being of patients, including: the research and development 
of products; clinical trial design and execution; regulatory 
submissions; the manufacturing, packaging, and supply of 
products; pharmacovigilance, and post-market surveillance; 
and commercial and medical affairs activities. Our QMS is 
continuously monitored to help ensure it remains a pathway for 
the appropriate identification of quality, safety and compliance 
issues and risks.
For more information on Clinical Trials see pages 46  and 32  
and access the Clinical Trials information  on our corporate 
website .
For more information on Medicine Safety, access the 
Medicine Safety information on our corporate website .
View our Corporate Quality Policy  MOVING AT THE SPEED OF SCIENCE: MAKING THE 
IMPOSSIBLE POSSIBLE
When the COVID-19 pandemic began, the challenge wasn’t 
just developing a vaccine, we also had to make and supply it, 
by the billions, to the waiting world without compromising 
product quality or patient safety. We did this by moving at the 
speed of science, working within our established QMS, and 
adhering to our strong foundation of safety and quality policies 
and processes. We continue to place the utmost emphasis of 
patient safety and product quality at every step in the clinical 
development and manufacturing process and through our safety 
monitoring. 
Until the very end of last year, no mRNA vaccine had ever been 
authorized and thus, one had never been manufactured at scale 
by any company. Pfizer invested more than $2 billion at risk on 
our COVID-19 vaccine development program – with $500 million 
of that spent on scaling up our manufacturing capabilities, 
before we knew the results of our clinical trials. There were 
no guarantees. But, with over 170 years of experience on our 
side, we’ve arguably developed the most efficient vaccine 
manufacturing machine that the pharmaceutical industry has 
seen. In order to manufacture more than 3 billion doses (as of 
December 31, 2021), we have had to plan every detail with a 
laser focus on quality and safety, and the journey is far from 
over.  We know there is a dire need to vaccinate more people 
quickly.  That’s why we’re continuing to expand and enhance our 
manufacturing capabilities and processes. We believe that the 
impossible can be possible – because we witnessed it firsthand. Pfizer 2021 ESG Report44
 GovernanceGovernance
— Continued
Identifying and mitigating risks  
Risk management is a key element of our QMS. This risk 
management includes appropriate escalation of issues and 
risk tracking and mitigation plans to the Quality & Compliance 
Committees, the Executive Compliance Committee and the 
Regulatory & Compliance Committee of the Board. Whether a 
product is developed, manufactured and supplied by Pfizer or 
a third party, any significant quality or regulatory compliance 
issues are investigated in a timely manner and addressed with 
corrective and preventative actions. Procedures are in place to 
ensure issue escalation as appropriate and is commensurate 
with the level of risk involved. 
Pfizer’s global policies, processes and training procedures  
Our comprehensive global policies and procedures are 
designed to ensure compliance with our scientific, ethical, legal 
and regulatory obligations, and our own high standards. We 
also expect the same from third parties who carry out work on 
behalf of Pfizer. 
As an example, Pfizer has more than 140 standards that apply 
to Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP)-related activities. These 
standards set out the criteria for our own Pfizer-wide GMP 
quality management system, which is based on a number of 
industry-recognized quality management principles.  
We know the importance of continuous education and 
training. As such, individuals who perform work for, or on 
behalf of, Pfizer have the necessary education, training, skills, 
qualifications, and experience to carry out work in accordance 
with all applicable laws and regulations and Pfizer’s own 
stringent standards. 
Required training is based on role and responsibility, and 
role-specific quality and compliance training is added 
to colleagues’ core curriculum.
Demonstrating quality through internal and external 
Demonstrating quality through internal and external Demonstrating quality through internal and external 
audits
As part of our Independent Audit program, we regularly 
assess the design and operating effectiveness of the Pfizer 
QMS using a risk-based approach that adheres to regulatory 
and internal quality requirements. The audit program spans 
preclinical, clinical, pharmacovigilance, regulatory, medical 
and manufacturing activities, third parties and suppliers. Our 
approach to audits is aimed to help ensure we proactively 
identify potential areas of improvement, enabling us to 
effectively manage risk while maintaining and improving our 
performance for patients. 
Meeting Pfizer’s high quality and safety standards: Third-
party management
Given the high number of third parties with whom Pfizer 
works, we have strict controls in place to manage risks that 
originate from or are related to third parties conducting 
work on Pfizer’s behalf. Our comprehensive due diligence, 
selection and qualification process for all Contract Research 
Organizations (CROs), vendors, third-party manufacturers 
and suppliers is designed to ensure compliance with all 
applicable regulations and Pfizer policies. This process 
also extends to our risk management oversight program 
for all third parties.  Quality agreements that outline the 
requirements to maintain continued qualified status are in 
place for all vendors of materials used in Pfizer’s drug product 
manufacture. Additionally, materials used by third-party 
manufacturers must be approved for use.
Breakthroughs made possible through our commitment to 
quality, safety and integrity in clinical trials
Before a medicine is approved and available, it is tested in 
clinical trials. Pfizer’s QMS includes a focus on managing 
clinical trial activities to protect participants and the reliability 
of results. The QMS is designed to oversee quality, ensure 
consistency in the execution of processes,  support  the 
management of risks to quality throughout all stages of 
clinical development, and promote a strong and healthy 
culture of quality and knowledge management. We put 
participants’ rights, safety and well-being first, always. View our Corporate Quality Policy .
To learn more about our COVID-19 story, access our Coronavirus 
Facts, News & Information  on our corporate website, and see 
Moving at the Speed of Science to Address a Global Crisis.
PRODUCING OUR PRODUCTS TO THE HIGHEST 
QUALITY STANDARD
U.S. FDA and other Health Authorities around the world 
conducted a total of 63 inspections of Pfizer facilities in 2021 
related to good manufacturing practice (GMP), confirming 
each inspected site was in a state of compliance. Our supply 
network is designed to ensure we produce medicines and 
vaccines to the highest quality and safety standards, in full 
compliance with Pfizer’s Global Quality Standards and GMP 
based on global requirements and industry best practices. 
Each of our internal manufacturing, supply and distribution 
operations holds relevant manufacturing licenses and GMP 
certificates.  
As of the end of calendar year 2021, two Pfizer manufacturing 
sites remained classified as Official Action Indicated by FDA. 
One of these sites has since been reclassified as Voluntary 
Action Indicated (VAI) due to our successful implementation 
of corrective and preventive actions. 
For more information, please see U.S. FDA Current Good 
Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) Regulations .
ICH Q10  Pharmaceutical Quality System model.
For more information on our approach to Supply Chains see 
pages 27 , 46.
Please visit the U.S. Food & Drug Administrations (FDA) MedWatch 
website  for more information on product safety alerts.
Visit the U.S. Food & Drug Administration’s (FDA) Postmarket 
Drug Safety Information  for Patients and Providers for up-to-date 
information on product use.
For more information on Medicine Safety , access the Medicine 
Safety information on our corporate website.
For more information on Global Pharmacovigilance, please refer 
to World Health Organization Regulation and Prequalification .
For more information on our approach to Clinical Trials, see page 
47 and access the Clinical Trials information  on our corporate 
website.
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report45
 GovernanceGovernance
— Continued
Supplying high-quality breakthroughs that change 
patients’ lives
Our integrated, innovative and highly specialized global 
supply network delivers medicines to patients in more 
than 165 countries – more than 20 billion doses in just 
one year. Our 39 internal manufacturing facilities, along 
with our external manufacturing and supply partners, 
and tens of thousands of Pfizer Global Supply colleagues, 
all operate within our QMS. We have a Quality team at 
each of our global manufacturing sites and distribution 
centers, and a dedicated Quality team that provides 
oversight to our external suppliers. 
Commitment to patient safety
One of our primary responsibilities as a global 
pharmaceutical company is to ensure the safety of the 
patients taking our products. Pfizer’s commitment to 
product safety begins in the lab and continues for as long 
as the medicine is available to patients.
Pfizer’s extensive safety system is realized by thousands 
of Pfizer’s experts who work in partnership with 
healthcare providers and regulatory authorities to 
analyze, and communicate the risks and benefits of our 
medicines both before and after they are approved for 
use. 
After approval, we continuously review and assess 
the product’s safety profile to ensure the benefits 
outweigh the risks associated with its use. Global 
pharmacovigilance activities are centralized in our 
Worldwide Safety organization and led by our Chief Safety 
Officer. Our safety database is constantly monitored 
for emerging safety trends and assessed by healthcare 
professionals and other experts to determine actions 
that ensure the safe and effective use of our products. 
Our Worldwide Medical & Safety processes are designed 
to meet compliance with global health authority 
requirements.
1    Count of inspections includes all GCP/GMP/PV inspections performed at a Pfizer facility , as well as inspections performed at an investigator site or CRO r elated to a 
    Pfizer clinical study.
2    Data includes both regulatory warning letters as well as enforcement actions (e.g., seizure, injunction, criminal prosecution and/or criminal fines).
3    In January 2022, one of these facilities was reclassified as Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI). 96% of our GMP facilities that supply the U.S. market are VAI or NAI status.Pfizer 2021 ESG Report46
 GovernanceGovernance
— Continued
A 170 year history of high quality and safe products
People depend on us for their health. When a medical need 
arises, the breadth and depth of our company enables us 
to rapidly adjust our processes, while maintaining our high 
standards, and re-allocate resources to quickly produce 
potential life-saving therapies, all while continuing to safely 
manufacture and supply hundreds of products to patients. 
Every dose of the medicines we produce must be made to 
the highest standards, always ensuring product quality and 
patient safety.
Counterfeit Medicines 
Counterfeit medicines pose a significant risk to patient health 
and safety. To protect our patients, we take a proactive 
approach to product safety by investing in an enterprise-
wide, global strategy to combat counterfeit threats through 
patient education, surveillance and interdiction5, public-
private collaboration, and legislative advocacy. Pfizer 
provides training to healthcare professionals who interact 
directly with patients, and law enforcement to better identify 
counterfeit drugs. Our anti-counterfeiting webpage aims to 
raise awareness among patients about the dangers of fake 
medicines. Additionally, we work with those involved in every 
step of the supply chain to monitor distribution channels and 
improve surveillance of distributors and repackagers. 
Pfizer addresses the issue of illicit online prescription drug 
offers through effective internet monitoring and disruption 
programs, which search and systematically disrupt online 
pharmacy and social media groups dispensing counterfeit 
versions of Pfizer medicines and vaccines. Our anti-
counterfeiting program is augmented by innovations such 
as artificial intelligence and natural language processing to 
keep pace with rapidly evolving digital threats. If a counterfeit 
product is identified in the legitimate supply chain, a formal 
process is in place to alert all impacted parties. 
Pfizer invests in packaging and information technologies to 
align with global mandates around serialization. The unique 
Product Identifiers developed for serialization will enable 
the tracking and tracing of product movement through the supply chain, from the manufacturing site to patient 
dispensation (including Government Systems and Trading 
Partners) and allows authorized trading partners today to 
verify the authenticity of our medicines with a simple scan.
Supply Chain Transparency 
We are committed to maintaining stringent quality standards 
through our extensive supply networks – both internal and 
external. We’ve prioritized building out our governance 
processes that oversee the manufacturing and supply quality 
of everything we produce. We see compliance with regulatory 
standards as the foundation of risk mitigation and a crucial 
component of providing the world with a reliable supply of 
safe and effective medicines and vaccines. 
We also assess our suppliers’ environmental, health and 
safety (EHS) performance, including labor and ethics, by 
performing audits and reviewing environmental sustainability 
data.  
Our current Modern Slavery Statement outlines our approach 
to the management of modern slavery risks in our supply 
chain. Pfizer is currently focusing on targeted high-risk areas 
as identified by the Global Slavery Index and is taking steps to 
address these risks as described in our Statement, including 
implementation of our corporate labor and ethics standard. 
If we identify these higher risk areas, our process outlines 
additional due diligence processes to be implemented to help 
avoid being complicit in supporting modern slavery.  
In addition to championing responsible supply chain EHS 
performance internally, Pfizer contributes to pharmaceutical 
industry efforts to improve performance in supply chain EHS 
management. We pursue opportunities to help suppliers 
achieve better performance by:  
• Verifying through audits that our suppliers operate in 
compliance with laws and in alignment with Pfizer’s 
Supplier Conduct Principles and the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) Principles for Responsible 
Supply Chain Management.  • Coaching to increase capability, drive impact reduction 
and sustain EHS improvement. 
Through a combination of remote and on-site audits we 
assessed EHS performance for 122 supplier facilities in 2021, 
resulting in 925 observations.  Of the suppliers audited, 5 
were identified as not meeting Pfizer’s expectations for EHS 
performance, resulting in Pfizer not pursuing business with 
those suppliers.  We have worked with the others to establish 
action plans to mitigate risks and continue to monitor 
implementation progress. 
5      In this context, “interdiction” refers to the seizure, raids and arrests to prevent counterfeits from reaching its targeted audience.
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report47
 GovernanceGovernance
— Continued
Intellectual Property 
The incentives provided by the intellectual property system 
are fundamental to our ability to apply science and invest the 
resources necessary to deliver breakthroughs that change 
patients’ lives. As reflected in the “IP Principles for Advancing 
Cures and Therapies” (IP PACT), Pfizer is committed to patient 
and societal benefit as guiding principles in our IP practice.  
We recognize the unique socioeconomic challenges facing 
Least Developed Countries and have a policy of patent non-
enforcement in those countries. Pfizer has entered into a 
voluntary licensing agreement with the Medicines Patent Pool 
(MPP), a United Nations-backed public health organization, 
to share intellectual property related to our oral COVID-19 
treatment, with the goal of helping to improve access to 
COVID-19 treatments to 95 low- and middle-income countries 
and enable supply to a slate of countries that account for 53% 
of the world’s population.  We also have an agreement with the 
MPP to help facilitate the clinical development of sutezolid, an 
investigational medicine for the treatment of tuberculosis.     
We believe that accessible patent information promotes 
scientific progress and helps improve the procurement of 
medicines; in line with this belief, we are a member of the 
Patent Information Initiative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), 
an initiative hosted by the World Intellectual Property 
Organization (WIPO) that facilitates easy access to medicine 
patent information. 
Pfizer is a founding member of WIPO Re:Search, a public-
private partnership administered by WIPO that aims to catalyze 
a broad range of innovative collaborations to support early 
stage research and development in the fight against neglected 
tropical diseases. We are also a sponsor of the Inventor 
Assistance Program, a WIPO initiative in cooperation with 
the World Economic Forum that matches developing country 
inventors and small businesses of limited financial means with 
patent attorneys that provide pro bono legal assistance to 
secure patent protection.
We believe that the more people who can turn great ideas 
into reality through the patent system, the greater the chance of creating a thriving society that allows countries to develop 
economically.
Clinical Trials 
Every successful clinical trial is built on trust. Pfizer honors that 
trust by conducting representative and transparent trials by 
sharing the policies that govern our global clinical research, 
and providing plain language result summaries for certain 
trials. Through the plain language summaries, we intend to 
make our clinical trials more understandable and accessible to 
the general audience. These policies and study result reporting 
mechanisms help ensure that every clinical trial is planned, 
conducted and reviewed according to our high ethical, clinical, 
and scientific standards.  
As we work to develop new medicines and vaccines for the 
patients we serve, our conduct is guided with the help and 
oversight of a variety of groups. These groups include patient 
groups, institutional review boards, regulatory authorities, 
data and safety monitoring boards, medical and industry 
association guidelines governing ethical clinical trial conduct 
and research integrity, and our own bioethics advisory panel.   
All Pfizer-sponsored interventional studies are conducted 
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, as well 
as principles derived from relevant international standards, 
including:  
• The Council for International Organizations of Medical 
Sciences (CIOMS) International Ethical Guidelines. 
• The International Council for Harmonisation of Technical 
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) 
E6 guideline for Good Clinical Practice. 
• PhRMA’s Principles on Conduct of Clinical Trials and 
Communication of Clinical Trial Results. 
• The Declaration of Helsinki. 
• The United States Belmont report. 
• More information on Pfizer policies related to clinical trials 
can be found on our research integrity and transparency 
page at Pfizer.com.DIVERSITY IN CLINICAL TRIALS
We recognize the importance of diversity in clinical 
research when it comes to creating equitable health 
outcomes. We recently conducted a 10-year, retrospective 
analysis  of diversity in our U.S. clinical trials to better 
understand how to meet patient needs. This analysis 
helped reinforce our commitment to diversity in clinical 
trials, as we firmly believe clinical trials should reflect 
the racial and ethnic demographics of the countries and 
communities in which they are conducted. For example, in 
the U.S., we’ve made a commitment to achieving racially 
and ethnically diverse participation at or above U.S. 
census or disease prevalence levels (as appropriate) in all 
of our trials. Pfizer is proud of our transparency efforts on 
diversity in our clinical trials and of the decisive steps we 
are taking to help ensure representation in clinical trials 
around the world.
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report48
Data Privacy and Protection
Pfizer is committed to the responsible and transparent use 
and protection of personal data entrusted to us by patients, 
customers, employees and others. We provide our employees 
and contractors with training on global privacy principles in 
accordance with our commitment to respect and safeguard 
personal data. Our privacy practices are governed by our 
Global Privacy Committee, a cross-functional governance 
body composed of senior-level leaders who provide oversight 
and guidance that informs company practices.  Additionally, 
our Global Privacy Office maintains an enterprise-wide 
policy and standards that guide the collection, maintenance 
and protection of personal data and consider the legal and 
regulatory requirements where we do business.   
Examples of the practices we follow to help ensure the 
integrity of our data privacy processes include:  
• Collecting and using the minimum amount of personal 
data necessary to achieve our business purposes.  
• Sharing personal data only with individuals who have a 
legitimate need for it and will protect it.   
• Maintaining appropriate administrative, technical and 
organizational security measures to protect personal 
data.  
• Training our employees on the responsible use of 
personal information.Right to Health
Pfizer’s purpose fuels everything we do and reflects both our 
passion for science and our commitment to patients.  
Throughout 2021, Pfizer continued to build on our multi-year 
review of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights and what they mean for our company and how to 
progress a human rights-based approach to our work.  
Based on Pfizer’s human rights policy statement, we focused 
on the right to health as our number one priority, with 
availability, accessibility and affordability as key focus areas. 
This priority has been particularly critical for Pfizer the last 
two years, as the pandemic has exacerbated human rights 
inequities. We knew the right to health of underserved 
populations, those in hard-to-reach locations, and places 
lacking access to basic health services would be most severely 
impacted by the pandemic. 
Since the beginning of the pandemic, our paramount 
concern has been equitable and affordable access to 
COVID-19 vaccines for all people around the world. We 
continued to evaluate regularly the risks COVID-19 poses 
to people and adapted our response while engaging with 
stakeholders.
We have mapped our human rights responsibilities against 
our sustainability priorities, and in the coming year and 
beyond, will continue refining our human rights work to 
more fully integrate considerations around people risks 
into our business strategy, decision-making, operations 
and partnerships. We will continue to build relationships, 
engage with our key stakeholders, and leverage our work 
collaboratively with peers and other partners to fulfill our 
responsibility to respect human rights.
GovernanceGovernance
— Continued
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report49
 GovernanceGovernance
— Continued
Accountability
Right Incentives
Pfizer is committed to long-term sustainability focused on 
fulfilling our purpose, responsibly. We hold our leadership 
accountable for our societal and environmental impact, and 
have implemented a top-down ESG strategy. In 2021, the 
Compensation Committee reviewed methods for linking 
compensation with ESG performance. Effective for the 
2022 performance year, the Committee adopted the ESG 
Scorecard, (similar to the research and development modifier 
approach) which will be used as a tool to assist in determining 
the funding for the annual short-term incentive plan (GPP 
program). This change to our compensation program will 
impact over 30,000 colleagues and leaders, globally. 
The ESG Scorecard approach will further solidify our 
commitment to the ESG initiatives. We believe the metrics 
used in the ESG Scorecard are some of the key drivers for our 
future success. The specific ESG metrics being used for the 
GPP are Percentage of Vice President and higher roles held 
by women (globally), Percentage of Vice President and higher 
roles held by minorities (U.S.) and Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
We’re purposefully taking a holistic approach to determine 
what success looks like, and how our executives are 
rewarded for performance. We’re proud of the Compensation 
Committee’s decision to incentivize sustainability and positive 
social impact, contributing to our role as a responsible 
corporate citizen.  
For additional details on the GPP Program, refer to the Pfizer 
2022 Proxy Statement.Political Contributions and Lobbying Activities
We understand the impact public policy has on our 
ability to meet patient needs and provide value to our 
shareholders. As such, we actively participate in dialogue 
around public policy with lawmakers to explain our 
perspectives. We believe the business community has a 
responsibility to transparently engage in this space, given 
our extensive knowledge, research, and societal impact. Pfizer is a member of various industry and trade groups 
that represent both the pharmaceutical industry 
and the business community at large to bring about 
consensus on broad policy. In addition to trade group 
positions on health care policy issues, we realize these 
organizations may engage in a broad range of other 
issues that extend beyond the scope of what is of 
primary importance to Pfizer’s business. If concerns 
arise about a particular issue, we convey our concerns, 
as appropriate. We believe there is value in making sure 
our positions on issues important to patients, Pfizer, and 
our industry are communicated and understood within 
those organizations. In December, Pfizer issued a report  
outlining the public policy positions of Pfizer and five 
trade associations across six areas of key public policy 
and ESG significance for Pfizer. The report also compares 
Pfizer and the trade associations’ positions and describes 
the degree of alignment and areas of misalignment. 
Pfizer’s corporate political contributions and lobbying 
activities  are focused on promoting the interests of the 
patients we serve and our company, without regard to the 
personal political preferences or affiliations of any of our 
employees, officers, or board members. The company’s 
corporate political contributions and lobbying activities 
are subject to robust internal procedures designed to 
align these efforts with our public policy priorities and 
applicable law. The company has an extensive training 
and reporting program in place to ensure compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations as well as Pfizer’s internal 
policies and procedures.  
Pfizer opposed the events at the Capitol on January 6, 
2021, and paused Pfizer Political Action Committee (PAC) 
giving to the 147 Republicans who voted against certifying 
the election for the first half of 2021. Pfizer also supports 
ensuring every American citizen’s right to vote, which is 
fundamental to preserving democracy. 
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report50
Governance
— Continued
Board of Directors and Board Committees
The Board of Directors is elected annually by the 
shareholders. The primary responsibility of the Board 
is to represent shareholders and to enhance long-term 
shareholder value. The Board elects the chief executive 
officer and other members of the senior management team, 
and acts as an advisor and counselor to senior management 
and ultimately monitors its performance. The function of the 
Board to monitor the performance of senior management is 
facilitated by the presence of a majority of independent non-
employee Directors who have substantive knowledge of the 
Company’s business. 
Pfizer’s Board Committees are integral to the overall 
functioning of the Board. The Board has six committees: 
• Audit Committee 
• Compensation Committee 
• Executive Committee 
• Governance & Sustainability Committee 
• Regulatory and Compliance Committee 
• Science and Technology Committee 
Board Leadership Structure
In December 2021, following a thorough review by the 
Governance & Sustainability Committee, the independent 
Directors re-evaluated the Board’s leadership structure and 
considered the company’s current operating environment, 
alternative leadership structures, a review of peer and 
best practices, and investor feedback. The Committee and 
other independent Directors determined that continuing 
to combine the roles of Chairman and CEO would be in 
the best interests of the company and its shareholders as 
the company can more effectively execute its strategies, especially during this unprecedented global pandemic, with 
a Chair with deep scientific and industry expertise, and 
company knowledge. The combined role, coupled with the 
strong Lead Independent Director, has enabled the Board 
to be responsive to challenges and opportunities as they 
continue to arise.   
Governance of ESG
Good governance over ESG for Pfizer starts with the Board 
and extends throughout every level of the enterprise. 
These past two years have shown us the importance of 
listening to all stakeholders, learning from our experiences, 
and stepping up to lead when society needs us to. This 
commitment precedes the COVID-19 pandemic and has long 
been part of our DNA as a company.    
The Governance & Sustainability Committee (G&SC) of the 
Board is primarily responsible for oversight of our ESG 
strategy, reporting, policies and practices. The Committee is 
also responsible for considering risks relating to:
• The company’s lobbying and political activities; and
• The company’s policies and practices related to its 
human capital management, which may include culture, 
diversity, equity and inclusion, pay equity and talent 
management.
The G&SC receives periodic updates from management on 
Pfizer’s progress against ESG goals and future initiatives 
designed to further enhance performance. Other Board 
Committees oversee elements of our ESG program 
associated with their respective areas of responsibility. For 
example:
• The Audit Committee, which has primary responsibility 
for overseeing Pfizer’s Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) program, reviews and receives briefings 
concerning risks to Pfizer associated with certain 
priority issues (e.g., information security and 
technology, cybersecurity, drug pricing, access and reimbursement), including ESG areas. ERM provides 
a framework for risk identification and management 
which includes risks associated with ESG factors. The 
Audit Committee is also monitoring and assessing 
Pfizer’s preparedness for potential mandatory 
sustainability reporting under consideration by the SEC.
• The Compensation Committee collaborates with the 
G&SC on responsibilities delegated by the Board 
related to human capital management and recently 
approved incorporating three ESG metrics into the 
annual short-term incentive plan funding for 2022, 
which will impact all 30,000 plus participants in this 
plan.  In addition, ESG factors, including the three used 
in the short-term annual incentive plan, are included in 
the individual performance goals of many executives 
throughout the organization, which will further align 
their compensation with ESG factors.     
• The Regulatory and Compliance Committee (RCC) has 
oversight of quality and compliance risk management 
in the areas of healthcare compliance across Pfizer’s 
core functions – Research & Development and Medical, 
Manufacturing and Supply, and Commercial – in support 
of Pfizer’s focus on quality, safety, transparency, and 
integrity in pursuit of scientific advancement, public 
health and its purpose.
GovernanceThe committee’s charters may be viewed on our corporate 
website at: Board Committee Charters
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report51
 GovernanceGovernance
— Continued
Shareholders and other interested parties may communicate with any of our directors, including the lead independent director and the audit 
committee chair, as follows:
By email: https://investors.pfizer.com/Investors/Corporate-Governance/Contact-Our-Directors/default.aspx
By mail: Corporate Secretary, Pfizer Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, New York 10017
The Board of Directors is fully engaged and supportive of 
Pfizer’s ESG program. This year, Chair of the G&SC, Joseph 
Echevarria, held a fireside chat  with Pfizer’s Chief Compliance, 
Quality & Risk Officer, broadcast publicly, to describe how the 
Board addresses ESG issues across multiple committees, and 
how our approach to ESG is integrated with the ERM program.  
In addition, ESG is managed internally by our cross-functional 
Sustainability Steering Committee, which advises on key issues 
and guides the integration and implementation of Pfizer’s non-
financial reporting related to ESG. The Committee is co-chaired by 
our Chief Sustainability Officer and ESG Head, and sponsored by 
the Executive Leadership Team member leading Corporate Affairs, 
who reports directly to the Chairman and CEO. 
We encourage all colleagues to contribute to achieving our ESG 
goals by understanding our strategy and to apply an ESG lens to 
their day-to-day activities. In October 2021, we held an enterprise-
wide event to raise colleague awareness about our purpose. This 
event served as a call to action to convert that purpose into ESG 
impact by advancing our corporate ESG strategy.
Board Diversity and Independence
Our Board is composed entirely of independent directors other 
than our chairman and CEO, Albert Bourla, and is diverse, with 
diversity reflecting gender, age, race, ethnicity, background, 
professional experience and perspectives. Each Director provides 
a unique perspective, experience and skill set, that creates an 
effective and well-functioning Board.
To help ensure effective refreshment and proactively manage 
eventual vacancies on the Board, the Governance & Sustainability 
Committee and the full Board consider a diverse pool of qualified 
director candidates on an ongoing basis. This process resulted in 
the election of six new independent directors over the past five 
years, bringing our average Board tenure to six years. Measuring and reporting our environmental, social and 
governance performance is key to understanding the impact 
of our operations, driving continuous improvement, and 
maintaining a transparent dialogue with our stakeholders.
We are committed to improving our ESG 
performance because it is crucial to our long-term 
success as a responsible business and is essential 
to achieving our purpose. The key performance 
indicators we track are driven by an assessment 
of issues of greatest relevance and impact to our 
external stakeholders and our business. PerformancePfizer 2021 ESG Report53
 PerformanceEnvironment
Carbon emissions (in thousand metric tons CO2e)4
Renewable electricity (%) 
Business travel carbon emissions (in thousand metric tons CO2e)6 
Upstream transportation & distribution carbon emissions (in thousand metric tons CO2e)7 Suppliers of purchased goods and services by spend with science-based targets (%)5 Climate change (Scopes 1 & 2)1,2,3
Supply chain environmental sustainability (Scope 3)3 2019  
(baseline)  
2019  
(baseline)  1,264  
9.4 
351.5  2020
20201,182  
4.9 
96.3 2021
20211,172  
6.5
10%
29.0  
672.6 2030
Goal
2025
Goal680 
100%
64%
263.6 
Pfizer’s organizational boundaries for environmental performance include all owned sites and leased facilities where Pfizer has operational control. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the World 
Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. The 2019–2020 GHG data is independently verified to the limited assurance level. Verification of the 2021 GHG data will be completed in 2022.
Scopes 1 and 2 as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard:  
• Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions. Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or controlled by the company, for example, emissions from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.; emissions from 
chemical production in owned or controlled process equipment.  
• Scope 2: Electricity indirect GHG emissions. GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by the company. Purchased electricity is defined as electricity that is purchased or otherwise brought into the 
organizational boundary of the company.
Data presented represents information available as of January 31, 2022, including certain estimates and assumptions. Finalized 2021 data will be published on Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability page.
Pfizer’s 2030 GHG emissions goal is to achieve a 46% reduction from the 2019 baseline, inclusive of the 100% renewable electricity target. When reporting in metric tons, there may be differences in baseline and subsequent reporting year 
values due to changes in the business that require baseline adjustments conducted in accordance with the GHG Protocol. 
Tracking of the Scope 3 supplier engagement goal was initiated in 2021.  
Pfizer’s 2030 GHG emissions goal is to achieve a 25% reduction in business travel emissions from the 2019 baseline. When reporting in metric tons, there may be differences in baseline and subsequent reporting year values due to changes in 
the business that require baseline adjustments conducted in accordance with the GHG Protocol.
Upstream transportation and distribution data for 2019 and 2020 was undergoing baseline adjustment at the time this report was published.  Finalized data will be published on Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability page.1
2
3
4
5
6
7Pfizer 2021 ESG Report54
 PerformanceWater withdrawal (in million cubic meters) 
Water discharge (in million cubic meters) 
Water consumption (in million cubic meters)  
Hazardous waste generated (in thousand metric tons) 
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal (in thousand metric tons) 
Hazardous waste disposed (in thousand metric tons) 
Non-hazardous waste generated (in thousand metric tons)  
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal (in thousand metric tons) 
Non-hazardous waste disposed (in thousand metric tons) Water and waste1,22019
34.8 
30.9  
3.9
112.7  
43.1  
69.6  
37.3  
16.6  
20.6 2020
32.4 
28.6
3.8 
114.0  
42.5 
71.5  
36.9  
17.4
19.62021
27.5
23.5 
4.0
82.7
19.5
63.2
40.1  
24.0 
16.1
Pfizer’s organizational boundaries for environmental performance include all owned sites and leased facilities where Pfizer has operational control. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the World 
Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol.
Data presented represents information available as of January 31, 2022, including certain estimates and assumptions. Finalized 2021 data will be published on Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability page.1
2Environment
— ContinuedPfizer 2021 ESG Report55
 PerformanceSocial
Time to market (in years) (first-in-human (FIH) to approval)1 
Success rate (FIH to approval)2 
Number of drugs in portfolio3 
Number of drugs in research and development4 
Products on WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products and Vaccines 
Key projects driving large-scale digital solutions in R&D, manufacturing and health care provider  and patient engagement Product Innovation  Innovation and Global Health 2021 2020
8.1 8.4
21%
95
2821%
Product Listing
89
WHO Medicinal Products  and Vaccines  List 
38
Biosimilars and generics are excluded from all analyses, as are product enhancements (supplemental indications, major new formulations, etc.). New molecular entities (NME) are the foundation of Pfizer’s, and industry’s, innovative  
medicines pipelines. NMEs originating outside of Pfizer and acquired or licensed  by Pfizer after achieving FIH or more advanced development milestones are generally excluded from FIH-approval cycle time calculations where substantial 
development effort occurred before Pfizer’s operational control. Cycle times from FIH to approval are calculated between the FIH date for the NME in its first indication pursued,  and first major regulatory approval (U.S. FDA or EU European 
Medicines Agency) approval for the NME. The NME approval may or may not be for the same indication by which the NME triggered its first FIH milestone. Rolling cohorts are  used to provide sufficient sample sizes to calculate cycle times 
between major development milestones.  
The FIH to approval NME success rate metric is a composite metric. It is a cumulative success rate derived using individual phase success rates from FIH (start of Phase 1) to approval (first regulatory approval) at an NME level.  Combinations 
of approved NMEs, biosimilars and generics are excluded from all  success rate calculations. Cumulative NME success rate is calculated using three-year rolling cohorts for Phase 1 and five-year rolling cohorts for Phase 2, Phase 3 and 
registration.
Included on Pfizer’s Product Listing:
• U.S. Products Only: The product listing shows products available to U.S. consumers only.
• New Drug Application (NDA): Products included are only shown (or removed) if it has an active NDA (or the NDA has been withdrawn). This results in certain products being listed that are no longer available to the general public or are 
not actively marketed.
• Biosimilars, dosages, etc.: A product in the listing may be made up of biosimilars, Product Enhancements (PEs), or different dosages. A count of the products shown in the listing would not represent the total number of products  
(understating the total).
• Co-Marketing Agreements: Products that were co-marketed with other companies are included in the products listing. However, the third party may be taking or be responsible for a significant portion of the underlying marketing.
The 2021 figure is as of February 8, 2022 and represents the number of R&D programs in Phase 1 to registration, including programs for additional uses and dosage forms for in-line and in-registration products. For latest information, please 
see Pfizer’s R&D Portfolio.1
2
3
4Pfizer 2021 ESG Report56
 Performance% of Pfizer NME / BLA novel drug approvals by the U.S. FDA between 2017-2021 achieving breakthrough therapy designation
% of Pfizer NME / BLA novel drug approvals by the U.S. FDA between 2017-2021 achieving one or more expedited review designationsBreakthrough and Expedited Regulatory Designations1 Innovation and Global Health 2021
45% (vs. 30% for industry)
91% (vs. 66% for industry)
Breakthrough and other expedited U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulatory designations are cited as a proxy measure of innovation among Pfizer and biopharmaceutical industry novel drug approvals. As with success rate and 
time-to-market metrics, the metrics exclude biosimilars, generics and product enhancements. Our criteria for FDA expedited designations includes breakthrough therapy, fast track, priority review and accelerated approval. These four 
designations are well-defined and established in FDA reporting and suitable for tracking over time. The metrics cover a rolling 5-year period and references Pfizer internal medicines portfolio data and data provided by the FDA’s Center for 
Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) and Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER). The scope of these metrics is limited to new molecular entities (NME), novel biologics license applications (BLA) and novel vaccine approvals. 
Pfizer novel drug approval counts include co-developed or acquired assets which may not be listed as distinctly Pfizer assets among FDA data. Industry novel drug approval counts exclude Pfizer approvals.  1Social
— ContinuedPfizer 2021 ESG Report57
 PerformanceThe Patients Treated metric is calculated from Pfizer and third-party datasets. Figures may be limited given the coverage provided by external sources (e.g. calendar duration, geographic & product coverage). Numbers are estimates and 
assume US-like product usage and in some cases use global volume, daily dosage and # of treatment days to facilitate calculations and to extend applicability for the Rest of World. Methodologies to calculate estimates may vary by product 
type given the nature of the product and available data. Patients taking multiple Pfizer products may be counted as multiple Patients towards total. Numbers include Access & Affordability patient estimates. Historical estimates may 
periodically be subject to revision due to restatements in the underlying data source (Note: 2020 Patients Treated estimate of 399 million is a revision from the figure disclosed in the 2020 ESG Report due to data source restatements and 
updates to methodology). 
The 2021 Access to Medicine Index assesses the top 20 largest research-based pharmaceutical companies on their actions to improve access to medicine in 106 low- and middle-income countries for 82 diseases, conditions and pathogens. As 
the ATMI is published every 2 years, the 2021 disclosure is the same as the 2020 disclosure. ATMI 2021 Ranking .
The 2021 AMR Benchmark evaluates companies active in the development and deployment of antibacterials and antifungals. Among the eight R&D-based multinational companies assessed, Pfizer achieved a 81% total score and designated 
“joint leader”.  As the AMR Benchmark is published every 2 years, the 2021 disclosure represents new performance. ATM AMR Benchmark .
The U.S. portfolio includes all pharmaceutical products marketed by the company.  The product sales utilized in the analysis excludes our alliance products and contract manufacturing operation and represents ~83% of the total U.S. portfolio 
in 2021.
Ranked #2 among the largest Pharma companies in the 2020 PatientView Global Survey. The survey was conducted from November 2020 to February 2021 across 1,920 respondent patient groups from 84 countries, covering 133 main medical 
specialties. Forty-eight companies were assessed for performance on 10 patient related key-indicators of reputation. PatientView website .1
2
3
4
5Description of actions and initiatives to promote access 
Patients treated1 
Access to Medicine Index (ATMI) Ranking2 
Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Benchmark Position3 
Percent change in average net price for U.S. portfolio4 
Position in Global PatientView Survey5 Equitable Access and Pricing 
Patient-centric design  Innovation and Global Health 2021
pg. 34
424+ million (excluding our COVID-19 vaccine and Paxlovid™)
1.4 billion (including our COVID-19 vaccine and Paxlovid™) 
4th
81% / Joint Leader 
-5%
2nd 4th2020
2020 ESG Report – Social Narrative
399 million
4th
69% / 2nd
1%Social
— ContinuedPfizer 2021 ESG Report58
 PerformanceVice President and above
Senior Director
Director
Manager / Senior Manager
Analyst and below2021 Racial / Ethnic Group Representation (U.S. only)1Asian
15.5%12.4%
18.9%
19.9%
8.2%Black or African 
American
3.5%7.2%
4.3%
5.5%
20.0%Hispanic or 
Latino
5.6%4.7%
4.6%
6.1%
6.8%White
73.9%75.0%
70.4%
66.7%
61.8%Two or More 
Races
1.5%0.8%
1.7%
1.8%
3.1%Other
  
 
 
 Gender representation (global)1 
Vice President and above
Senior Director
Director
Manager / Senior Manager
Analyst and belowColleague Diversity, Equity and InclusionHuman Capital
2020
Female Female Male Male2021
38.1% 41.5% 61.9% 58.5%
42.4% 46.4% 57.6% 53.6%
49.7% 50.9% 50.3% 49.1%
50.7% 52.0% 49.3% 48.0%
47.3% 47.7% 52.7% 52.3%
Colleagues who select “Do Not Disclose” or have not filled in their profile are not included in the denominator or numerator for gender or racial/ethnic representation.  Gender representation is calculated globally. Puerto Rico is excluded 
within racial/ethnic representation but included in the Global Gender Representation.1Social
— ContinuedPfizer 2021 ESG Report59
 PerformanceEmployee Engagement and Purpose
Employee Engagement (composite score, favorable %)2
Employee Purpose (favorable %)3
Employee Turnover4
Voluntary Employee Turnover
Involuntary Employee TurnoverPay equityDescription of talent and recruitment efforts2020 2021
91%2020 ESG Report – Social Narrative pg. 382020 ESG Report – Social Narrative pg. 37
90%
93% 92%
5.3% 7.2%
3.9% 5.3%
Composite score across four questions: 1. I am proud to work for Pfizer, 2. I would recommend Pfizer as a great place to work, 3. I would like to be working at Pfizer one year from now, 4. If I were offered a comparable position with similar pay 
and benefits at another company, I would stay with Pfizer.
Scored from question: “My work contributes to our purpose – Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives”
Average Monthly Headcount = (Total of Headcounts for January 2021 through December 2021)/12. The number of employees at Pfizer who are actively working and are paid directly by the company, or those on leave for 6 months or less and 
eligible for benefits available to Pfizer employees in the country of their employment, or hired without an actual expected termination date.2
3
4Social
— Continued
Human CapitalPfizer 2021 ESG Report60
 PerformanceTo facilitate consistent reporting practices, Pfizer applies the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration Recordkeeping Requirements as its global reporting standard. 
Injuries or illnesses per 100 colleagues.
Injuries or illnesses resulting in time away from work per 100 colleagues. 
Work-related injuries or illnesses that led to loss of life.1
2
3
4Total Injury Rate (TIR)2 
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR)3 
Fatalities4 2020
0.27 
0.13
02021
0.30 
0.14
0Colleague Health & Safety1Social
— ContinuedPfizer 2021 ESG Report61
 PerformanceGovernance
Ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials  
Products listed on FDA’s MedWatch List 
Fatalities as reported in FDA Adverse Event Reporting System 
Code of ethics governing the promotion of off-label use of products 
Code of ethics governing interactions with health care providers  
Alerts of risks associated with counterfeit products 
Counterfeit drug process for maintaining traceability  
Proportion of women on Board of Directors1 Accountability  Ethics, Transparency, Quality  2021
pg. 47
FDA’s MedWatch List 
FDA AE Reporting System 
pg. 46
pg. 46
pg. 46
pg. 46
4 out of 12 4 out of 12 
Pfizer’s Board of Directors 12020
2020 ESG Report – Governance Narrative
2020 ESG Report – Governance Narrative
2020 ESG Report – Governance Narrative
2020 ESG Report – Governance Narrative
2020 ESG Report – Governance NarrativeWe are aligning our efforts and reporting to recognized ESG 
standards: The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), as well as the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), where appropriate. AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report63
 AppendixGRI Index
Organizational Profile 
102-1 
102-2 
102-3 
102-4 
102-5 
102-6
102-7
102-9 
102-11 
102-12 
102-13 GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) GRI Table
GRI 102: General Disclosures
Name of the organization  Pfizer Inc.
Activities, brands, products, and services Annual Review: Chairman & CEO Letter 
Chairman & CEO Letter: pg. 4-7
Pfizer Product Listing
Location of headquarters New York, New York (U.S.) 
Location of operations Pfizer Global Sites
Ownership and legal form 
Markets served
Scale of the organization 
Supply Chain
Precautionary Principle or approach
External initiatives
Membership of Associations Annual Review: Corporate and Shareholder Information
Annual Review: Chairman & CEO Letter 
Chairman & CEO Letter: pg. 4-7
Pfizer Global Sites
Annual Review: Chairman & CEO Letter 
Chairman & CEO Letter: pg. 4-7
Pfizer Global Sites
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 46
TCFD Report: pg. 79  
SASB Index: pg. 75
Pfizer may apply the precautionary principle in order to 
manage and report on our risks and impacts.
Financing for a Sustainable Future: pg. 18 - 22
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 47
Innovation & Global Health: pg. 35
TCFD Report: pg. 78 - 80
Accountability: pg. 49
Lobbying and Political ContributionsWe have included a GRI Index in this ESG Report as a reference tool to help readers more readily locate relevant information on our priority issues. This index was 
prepared using the GRI Standards Core Option. Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to non-financial reporting, including reference to several existing, globally 
recognized external frameworks – for more information see Global Reporting Frameworks on page 81 .Pfizer 2021 ESG Report64
Strategy
Ethics & Integrity 
Governance102-14 
102-16 
102-18 102-15 
102-17 
102-19 
102-20 
102-21 
102-22 GRI Indicator Description Reference
Statement from senior decision-maker 
Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behavior 
Governance Structure Chairman & CEO Letter: pg. 4-7 
Annual Review: Chairman & CEO Letter
Our Approach to ESG: pg. 10 - 11
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 41 , 47
Accountability: pg. 50 - 51Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Goal 16 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 
Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 
Delegating authority
Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topics 
Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental, and social topics 
Composition of the highest governance body and 
its committees Our Approach to ESG: pg. 10 - 11
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12 - 13
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 41 , 42, 43
SASB Index: pg. 74 , 75
Compliance and Ethics 
Accountability: pg. 50 - 51
Board Committees and Charters
Accountability: pg. 50
Chairman & CEO Letter: pg. 4-7
About This Report: pg. 81
Chairman & CEO Letter: pg. 4 - 7
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12 - 13
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 43
Accountability: pg. 50
Accountability: pg. 50
Board of Directors  
Board Committees and ChartersGRI Index
— Continued
AppendixPeace, Justice and Strong Institutions Goal 16 
Goal 16 
Goal 16 
Goal 5 
Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 
Gender Equality
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions United Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) Relevant SDGs
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report65
Governance
102-23 
102-24
102-25
102-26
102-27
102-28
102-29
102-30
102-31
102-32GRI Indicator Description Reference
Chair of the highest governance body 
Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body
Conflicts of interest 
Role of highest governance body in setting 
purpose, values, and strategy 
Collective knowledge of highest governance 
body 
Evaluating the highest governance body’s 
performance 
Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental, and social impacts 
Effectiveness of risk management processes 
Review of economic, environmental, and social 
topics 
Highest governance body’s role in sustainability 
reporting Accountability: pg. 50 - 51
Proxy Statement 2022  
Board of Directors  
The Pfizer Board: Board Policies SEC Filings 
Accountability: pg. 50 - 51
Corporate Governance Principles
A Letter from our Lead Independent Director
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the 
Board
Accountability: pg. 50 - 51
Corporate Governance Principles
Accountability: pg. 50 - 51
Corporate Governance Principles
Accountability: pg. 50
Corporate Governance Principles
Chairman & CEO Letter: pg. 4-6
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 46
Accountability: pg. 49 - 50
Board Governance & Sustainability Committee 
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 13
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 43
Accountability: pg. 50
Board Committees and Charters
Our Approach to ESG: pg. 10 - 11
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 14
Accountability: pg. 50 - 51  
Board Committees and Charters
Accountability: pg. 50 - 51
About This Report: pg. 81  
Board Committees and ChartersGRI Index
— Continued
AppendixGoal 16 
Goal 16 
Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Goal 5 
Goal 16 Gender Equality
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions United Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) Relevant SDGs
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report66
Governance
Stakeholder Engagement 102-33 
102-40 
102-42
102-43
102-44102-36
102-38GRI Indicator Description Reference
Communicating critical concerns 
List of stakeholder groups 
Identifying and selecting stakeholders 
Approach to stakeholder engagement 
Key topics and concerns raised Process for determining remuneration
Annual total compensation ratio Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 41 , 42, 43, 46
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12
Accountability: pg. 50 - 51  
Pfizer Transparency
Our Approach to ESG: pg. 10 - 11
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12 - 13
2022 Proxy StatementAccountability: pg. 49  
Board Compensation Committee Charter  
Financials: Annual Reports
Proxy Statement 2022  
Financials: Annual Reports GRI Index
— Continued
AppendixUnited Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) Pfizer 2021 ESG Report67
Reporting Practices
GRI 103: Management Approach Disclosures
Economic Performance 102-45
103-1
201-1103-2102-46
102-47
102-50
102-51
102-52
102-53
102-55GRI Indicator Description Reference
Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements 
Explanation of material topics and its 
boundaries 
Direct economic value generated and 
distributedManagement approach and its components Defining report content and topic boundaries
List of material topics 
Reporting period 
Date of most recent report 
Reporting cycle 
Contact point for questions regarding the 
report 
GRI content index Financials: Annual Reports 
Annual Review: About this Review   
About This Report: pg. 81  
Our Approach to ESG: pg. 10 - 11
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12 - 13
Annual Review: PerformanceOur Approach to ESG: pg. 10 - 11
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12 - 13Our Approach to ESG: pg. 10 - 11
About This Report: pg. 81  
Annual Review: About this Review
2022 Proxy Statement  
Priority ESG Issues: pg. 12 - 13
About This Report: pg. 81  
March 17, 2022
We report on an annual basis. 
Annual Review: Frank Briamonte, VP Executive Communications 
ESG Report: Chris Gray, Head of ESG 
GRI Index: pg. 63 - 72
GRI 200: Economic DisclosureGRI Index
— Continued
AppendixUnited Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) Pfizer 2021 ESG Report68
Indirect Economic Impacts 
Anti-Corruption
Water
Emissions203-1
205-1
303-2
305-1203-2GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) 
Infrastructure investments and services 
supported 
Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption 
Water withdrawal 
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Significant indirect economic impacts Priority ESG Issues: pg. 13
Moving at the Speed of Science to Address a Global Crisis: pg. 15 - 17
Innovation & Global Health: pg. 32 - 36
Global Health 
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 42
Summary of Pfizer’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy   
Corporate Governance – Board Policies  
Pfizer Compliance & Ethics
Progress & Highlights: pg. 9
Sustainable Medicines: pg. 30
Performance Data: pg. 54
Our 2030 Climate Ambitions: pg. 26
Performance Data: pg. 53
TCFD Report: pg. 78 , 80Moving at the Speed of Science to Address a Global Crisis: pg. 15 - 17
Innovation & Global Health: pg. 32 - 36
Annual Review: Stories
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 
Clean Water and SanitationGRI 300: Environmental DisclosuresGRI Index
— Continued
AppendixGoal 5 
Goal 9
Goal 17 
Goal 3
Goal 12
Goal 13
Goal 14
Goal 15Goal 1 
Goal 3
Goal 8 
Goal 16
Goal 6Gender Equality
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Partnerships for the Goals 
Good Health and Well-being 
Responsible Consumption and Production 
Climate Action
Life Below Water
Life on Land 
 No Poverty 
Good Health and Well-being 
Decent Work and Economic Growth Relevant SDGs
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report69
Emissions
Effluents and Waste305-2
306-1
306-2
306-3GRI Indicator Description Reference
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emission
Waste generation and significant waste-related 
impacts 
Management of significant waste-related 
impacts 
Waste generated Our 2030 Climate Ambitions: pg. 26  
Performance Data: pg. 54  
TCFD Report: pg. 78 , 80
Progress & Highlights: pg. 9
Sustainable Medicines: pg. 30
Sustainable Medicines: pg. 30
Performance Data: pg. 54  GRI Index
— Continued
AppendixUnited Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) 
Goal 3
Goal 12
Goal 13
Goal 14
Goal 15
Goal 3
Goal 6
Goal 12
Goal 14
Goal 15
Goal 6
Goal 12
Goal 14
Goal 15Goal 3
Goal 6
Goal 12Good Health and Well-being 
Responsible Consumption and Production 
Climate Action
Life Below Water
Life on Land 
 
Good Health and Well-being 
Clean Water and Sanitation 
Responsible Consumption and Production 
Life Below Water
Life on Land 
 
Clean Water and Sanitation 
Responsible Consumption and Production 
Life Below Water
Life on Land 
 Good Health and Well-being 
Clean Water and Sanitation 
Responsible Consumption and Production 
 Relevant SDGs
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report70
Effluents and Waste
306-4
306-5GRI Indicator Description Reference
Waste diverted from disposal 
Waste directed to disposalPerformance Data: pg. 54
Performance Data: pg. 54
Employment
Occupational Health and Safety 401-1
403-1
403-2New employee hires and employee turnover
Occupational health and safety management 
system
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigation  Performance Data: pg. 59
Human Capital: pg. 39
Performance Data: pg. 60
EHS Management Systems
To facilitate consistent reporting practices, Pfizer applies 
the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
Recordkeeping Requirements as its global reporting standard.
Human Capital: pg. 39
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 41 - 42
EHS Governance
EHS Policy Statement
EHS Management Systems 
Blue Book - Pfizer’s Code of Conduct: pgs. 7-9 GRI 400: Social Disclosures GRI Index
— Continued
AppendixGoal 6
Goal 12
Goal 14
Goal 15
Goal 6
Goal 12
Goal 14
Goal 15
Goal 5
Goal 8
Goal 10
Goal 3
Goal 8Clean Water and Sanitation 
Responsible Consumption and Production 
Life Below Water
Life on Land 
 
Clean Water and Sanitation 
Responsible Consumption and Production 
Life Below Water
Life on Land 
 
Gender Equality 
Decent Work and Economic Growth 
Reduced Inequality  
Good Health and Well-being 
Decent Work and Economic GrowthUnited Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) Relevant SDGs
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report71
Occupational Health and Safety 
Training and Education 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 403-3
404-2
405-1403-4
403-5
403-6
403-7
403-9GRI Indicator Description Reference
Occupational health services 
Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs
Diversity of governance bodies and employees Worker participation, consultation and 
communication on occupational health and 
safety
Worker training on occupational health and 
safety 
Promotion of worker health
Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked by 
business relationships 
Work-related injuries  Human Capital: pg. 38 - 39
Prioritizing Health & Safety 
EHS Policy Statement
Human Capital: pg. 39
Accountability: pg. 51
Performance Data: pg. 58Human Capital: pg. 37 , 39
Prioritizing Health & Safety
Blue Book - Pfizer’s Code of Conduct: pg. 28 
EHS Governance
Prioritizing Health & Safety
Human Capital: pg. 39
Prioritizing Health & Safety
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 46
Performance Data: pg. 60  GRI Index
— Continued
AppendixUnited Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) 
Goal 3
Goal 8
Goal 3Goal 8
Goal 16
Goal 8
Goal 16
Goal 3
Goal 16Goal 8
Goal 8
Goal 5
Goal 8Good Health and Well-being 
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Good Health and Well-being Decent Work and Economic Growth
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Good Health and Well-being 
Peace, Justice and Strong InstitutionsDecent Work and Economic Growth
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Gender Equality 
Decent Work and Economic GrowthRelevant SDGs
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report72
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
Human Rights Assessment 
Local Communities
Local Communities405-2
412-1
413-1
415-1412-2GRI Indicator Description Reference
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to men 
Operations that have been subject to human 
rights reviews or impact assessments
Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments and development 
programs 
Political contributionsEmployee training on human rights policies or 
procedures Human Capital: pg. 38   
Performance Data: pg. 59
Moving at the Speed of Science: Making the Impossible Possible: pg. 43
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 48
Human Rights Statement
Human Rights Policy Statement
2021 Modern Slavery Statement
Supplier Conduct Principles
Innovation & Global Health: pg. 34 - 36
Ethics, Transparency, & Quality: pg. 47
Financing for a Sustainable Future: pg. 18 - 22
Accountability: pg. 49
Lobbying and Political ContributionsHuman Capital: pg. 38   
Human Rights Statement
2021 Modern Slavery Statement
 GRI Index
— Continued
AppendixUnited Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) 
Goal 5
Goal 8
Goal 10
Goal 8
Goal 8
Goal 16Gender Equality 
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Reduced Inequality
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Relevant SDGs
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report73
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants
Access to Medicines
Affordability & PricingHC-BP-210a.1
HC-BP-240a.1
HC-BP-240b.1HC-BP-210a.2
HC-BP-240a.2
HC-BP-240b.2
HC-BP-240b.3HC-BP-210a.3SASB Code Metric Description Disclosure Location SASB Table
Discussion, by world region, the management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials
Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to health care products for priority diseases and in priority countries as 
defined by the Access to Medicine Index
Number of settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved payments and/or provisions to 
delay bringing an authorized generic product to market for a defined time periodPage 45, 47: Ethics, Transparency, & Quality
Page 31 - 35 : Innovation & Global Health 
Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. Page 45: Ethics, Transparency, & Quality
WHO Medicinal Products
WHO Prequalified Vaccines
Page 57: Social Performance Metrics 
Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. Number of FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) Voluntary 
Action Indicated (VAI) and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI)
List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP)
Percentage change in: (1) average list price and (2) average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to previous year
Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of product with largest increase compared to previous yearTotal amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing countriesThe Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, standards-setting organization that aims to increase consistency in environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
reporting by sector and has been developed in conjunction with investors. Pfizer has chosen to use the voluntary SASB framework for our industry – biotechnology and pharmaceuticals – as 
well as the professional and communication services and healthcare drug retailer sectors for human capital metrics that fit our priority issues.  
We are continually improving our data collection and coordination across Pfizer’s operations in support of our commitment to strengthen our reporting processes and disclosures in the 
coming years. SASB Index
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report74
Drug Safety
Counterfeit Drugs
Ethical Marketing
Employee Recruitment, Development, and RetentionHC-BP-250a.1
HC-BP-260a.1
HC-BP-270a.1
HC-BP-330a.1HC-BP-260a.2
HC-BP-270a.2
HC-BP-330a.2HC-BP-260a.3HC-BP-250a.2
HC-BP-250a.3 
HC-BP-250a.4
HC-BP-250a.5 SASB Code Metric Description Disclosure Location 
List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database
Description of methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain and 
prevent counterfeiting
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims
Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and research and development personnelDiscussion of process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks associated with counterfeit 
products
Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives/senior managers, (b) midlevel managers, (c) professionals, 
and (d) all othersNumber of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products Number of fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System
Number of recalls issued; total units recalled
Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse or disposal
Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeFDA MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database
Page 46: Ethics, Transparency, & Quality
Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. 
Page 37: Human Capital Page 46: Ethics, Transparency, & Quality
Page 41 - 42 : Ethics, Transparency, & Quality
Our Global Policy covers information on ethical marketing and off-label 
promotion. Furthermore, we disclose several policies and information that 
address ethical marketing and promotion of off-label use of products.
Page 59: Social Performance MetricsPfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. FDA Adverse Event Reporting System
Page 45: Ethics, Transparency, & Quality
Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. 
Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. SASB Index
— Continued
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report75
Supply Chain Management
Business Ethics
Activity Metrics
Health Care: Drug Retailers - Drug Supply Chain Integrity
Services: Professional & Commercial Services - Workforce Diversity & EngagementHC-BP-430a.1
HC-BP-510a.1
HC-BP-000.A
HC-DR-250a.1.
SV-PS-330a.1.
SV-PS-330a.3. HC-BP-510a.2
HC-BP-000.BSASB Code Metric Description Disclosure Location 
Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Consortium audit program or equivalent third-party audit programs for integrity of supply chain and ingredients
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery
Number of patients treated
Description of efforts to reduce the occurrence of compromised drugs within the supply chain 
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for (1) executive management and (2) all other employees 
Employee engagement as a percentage Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals
Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and development (Phases 1-3)Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. 
Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time. 
Page 33 - 35 : Innovation and Global Health
Page 57: Social Performance Metrics 
Page 46: Ethics, Transparency, & Quality 
Page 37 - 38 : Human Capital 
Page 58: Social Perfomance Metrics 
Page 37: Human Capital 
Page 59: Social Performance Metrics Page 41: Ethics, Transparency, & Quality
Page 32 - 34 : Innovation and Global Health
Page 55: Social Performance Metrics 
Other Relevant Industry Standards (not currently reported under SASB, but included in ESG report)SASB Index
— Continued
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report76
Pfizer has long acknowledged the significant risks posed 
by climate change, including potential adverse impacts on 
human health, frequency of severe weather events impacting 
personnel and operations, and the potential disruption of 
value chains critical to providing medicines and vaccines to 
patients.  We have been working for over two decades to 
address this global challenge through three generations of 
greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction goals and other resource 
conservation efforts. We are committed to developing and 
implementing a science-based climate action strategy and 
in December 2020 announced our ambition to become 
carbon neutral by 2030.  In addition, as outlined in our 
Climate Change Position Statement, we aim to conduct 
robust risk assessments to safeguard resiliency of our 
research, manufacturing, and commercial activities and to 
transparently report on our progress, risks, and opportunities 
aligned with Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations.
Governance 
Pfizer climate change program is co-led by senior colleagues 
in the Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) and Legal 
functions and is integrated into Pfizer’s operational and risk 
management processes as described below.  
Risk & Operational Governance: 
The Governance & Sustainability Committee (G&SC) of the 
Board of Directors provides oversight of Pfizer’s Environment, 
Social, Governance (ESG) strategy and reporting and 
corporate citizenship matters. The Committee, composed 
solely of independent directors, is responsible for oversight 
of our ESG strategy, reporting, policies and practices. The 
Committee is also responsible for considering risks relating 
to the company’s lobbying and political activities; and the 
company’s policies and practices related to its human capital 
management, which may include culture, diversity and 
inclusion, pay equity and talent management. The G&SC 
receives periodic updates from management on Pfizer’s 
progress against ESG goals and future initiatives designed to 
further enhance performance.Pfizer’s Global Supply (PGS) Quality & Compliance Committee 
(PGS QCC) reports key risks, including those related to 
climate change, to the Executive Compliance Committee of 
Pfizer’s Executive Leadership Team, including the CEO, and 
to the Regulatory and Compliance Committee of the Board 
of Directors.  The PGS QCC risk management process also 
informs Pfizer’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program.     
Pfizer’s ERM program provides a framework for risk 
identification and management of significant risks, 
including risks related to climate change and the long-
term sustainability of the business. Each risk is assigned to 
a member or members, as appropriate, of our Executive 
Leadership Team. The Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors, composed solely of independent directors, has 
primary responsibility for overseeing Pfizer’s ERM program. 
Periodically, the Regulatory and Compliance Committee 
and the Audit Committee hold joint sessions to discuss risks 
relevant to both committees’ areas of risk oversight, including 
an annual discussion of the ERM program. The board is kept 
informed of its committees’ risk oversight and other activities 
through reports by the committee chairs to the full board.  
More information on the risk assessment process for climate 
change is provided in the risk assessment section below. 
Manufacturing at our internal network of sites, managed 
by PGS, accounts for over 70% of the company’s energy 
consumption and GHG emissions. The Executive Vice 
President (EVP), Chief Global Supply Officer leads Pfizer’s 
manufacturing and supply chain and serves as the executive 
sponsor of climate change risk management and has 
operational control over PGS operations and strategy, 
including operating expenses (OPEX) and capital expense 
(CAPEX) investment in emission reduction projects.  
Environmental sustainability has been integrated into Pfizer’s 
business strategy and GHG emissions reduction is monitored 
as a key performance indicator.ESG Governance:   
Pfizer’s Sustainability Steering Committee, co-chaired by the 
Chief Sustainability Officer and ESG Lead, provides formal 
oversight and an accountability mechanism for ESG (including 
climate)-related risks and opportunities and is responsible 
for ESG strategy implementation. The Sustainability Steering 
Committee reports on priorities and progress to the Board 
of Director’s Governance & Sustainability Committee (G&SC) 
which provides oversight of the Company’s environmental, 
social and governance strategy and reporting, and corporate 
citizenship matters.
Risk Assessment 
Pfizer assesses climate change risk as part of our Enterprise 
Level EHS & Business Continuity Risk Management Process. 
Under this process, we conduct Operational Risk Evaluations 
(OREs) which are structured evaluations of risks with the 
potential to have substantive impact to Pfizer.  The process 
determines the effectiveness of controls in place to manage 
or mitigate risk.  
Climate change risk is evaluated by a team that includes 
relevant program leaders and subject matter experts from 
EHS and Business Resilience, Engineering, Compliance, Legal, 
and Audit. The Climate Change ORE is designed to assess 
potential risk to Pfizer across four risk factors, including: 
External/Reputational, Physical, Regulatory/Legal, and Market 
& Technology Risks.  Individual risks across each of the 
four risk factors are evaluated and rated based on severity, 
vulnerability, and risk to Pfizer with the goal to ensure that 
sufficient controls are in place to effectively mitigate climate 
change risks and prevent material impact to Pfizer. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report77
Using the ORE, we assess risk factors based on severity and 
vulnerability as measured by effectiveness of management 
controls. We define high severity as loss of the capability 
to produce products as the result of extensive damage, 
shut-down, or substantial loss of operations. We define high 
vulnerability as weak management controls that are not as 
robust as would be reasonably expected across multiple 
layers, suggesting increased potential for significant failure 
of risk control. The higher the severity and the vulnerability, 
the higher we define overall risk. Based on the risk scores, we 
prioritize action. Of the TCFD categories of climate risks, we 
have determined the most significant potential threat to our 
operations is physical risk. 
Pfizer uses tools such as Swiss Re CatNet to monitor 
short-, medium- and long-term physical threats to internal 
operations and for more than 5,000 contract manufacturers 
and material suppliers.  Risks identified through these 
assessments are reviewed as part of the ORE, and mitigation 
of risk is monitored through Pfizer’s Business Resilience 
program and escalated to company leadership as needed to 
inform business strategy. 
Acute and chronic physical risks related to climate change 
are managed through Pfizer’s Insurance and Business 
Continuity teams at the enterprise and local levels. Members 
from those teams participate in the risk review process that 
addresses business continuity/resiliency and provide input 
on the potential impact of physical risks that may be related 
to climate change, including severe weather events and 
flooding. 
Reputational risks are managed through our process to 
transparently disclose information related to our climate 
action program and engage with key stakeholders to help 
lead the conversation on voluntary actions companies can 
take to address their GHG emissions. Regulatory risks are managed through regulatory 
development tracking and analysis enabled by our Legal and 
Global EHS teams.   
Market and technology risks are monitored and managed 
through our Global EHS & Business Continuity risk 
management process. 
Pfizer’s integration of climate change into divisional and 
enterprise risk management processes includes reviewing 
risks that could be material to the company to support SEC 
10-K reporting.   
Risks and opportunities identified through our assessment 
process are summarized in the table below. Refer to our 2021 
CDP Response for additional detail on how climate-related 
risks have impacted our business, strategy and financial 
planning. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report78
Increases in operating costs due to introduction 
of carbon pricing/taxation schemes (short and 
medium term) 
Failure to meet stakeholder expectations 
Reductions in operating costs resulting from 
efficiency improvements (short and medium term)Risk or opportunity Potential impact How managed 
Carbon pricing has emerged as a key policy mechanism to reduce GHG emissions and curb the 
impacts of climate change.  The number of jurisdictions with carbon pricing policies is increasing, 
with over 60 carbon pricing initiatives in place or planned by regulators as of 2021. The World 
Bank’s “High-Level Commission on Carbon Pricing and Competitiveness” report suggests that a 
carbon price of $50 - $100 / tCO2e will be required to achieve RCP 2.6 by 2030.  
Although not financially substantive to our operations at this time, carbon pricing could 
potentially impact Pfizer’s global operations. Of the countries that have not implemented carbon 
taxes/pricing, the United States (US) represents the area of greatest potential impact to Pfizer. 
Operations in the US represent approximately two-thirds of Pfizer’s scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.  
If the US implements a federal carbon pricing scheme aligned with World Bank recommendations, 
the cost to Pfizer could range from approximately $28 million to $73 million annually by 2030 
based on current scope 1 and 2 emissions
Pfizer is seeing an increase in requests for environmental performance data and GHG emissions 
reduction commitments from customers and investors.  For example, England’s National Health 
Service (NHS) (which purchases Pfizer medicines and vaccines) has publicly declared its intention 
to stop purchasing from suppliers that do not meet or exceed the NHS commitment to net zero by 
2030. Pfizer’s commitment to ambitious climate action may help us to retain or increase revenue 
by meeting these demands. Alternatively, failure to meet current climate commitments and/or 
to continue taking ambitious climate action could result in the loss of market share, shareholder 
investments, or otherwise negatively impact Pfizer’s reputation. 
As a global company, Pfizer operates in multiple jurisdictions with current, pending, or potential 
future carbon tax and carbon cap and trade schemes. Fuel and energy costs have the potential 
to increase in these regions.  By implementing energy conservation projects, Pfizer can reduce 
exposure to increasing energy costs. We currently achieve annual savings of approximately $3-5 
million through the implementation of emission reduction projects.  These projects typically have 
a payback period of 4-10 years or less and have a lifetime greater than 6 years.To mitigate the impact of carbon fees, including increases in the cost of 
goods within our supply chain, Pfizer continues to focus on energy demand 
reduction through our internal and supply chain GHG emission reduction goals 
(recognized through the Science Based Targets initiative). 
Pfizer has committed to ambitious targets approved by the Science Based 
Targets initiative as aligned with a 1.5⁰C trajectory.  We are committed to 
becoming carbon neutral across internal operations by 2030 by reducing scope 
1 and 2 emissions 46 percent from a 2019 baseline, purchasing 100 percent 
electricity from renewable sources, and addressing any remaining emissions 
through carbon credits.  
Recognizing that Pfizer’s value chain emissions account for approximately 80% 
of our carbon footprint, we are using our influence to catalyze action from 
our suppliers.  We have integrated environmental criteria across our supplier 
sourcing, contracting, and performance management processes and are asking 
our suppliers to set science-based GHG emission reduction goals by 2025.    
We are also using scientific innovation to reduce the environmental impact of 
our medicines.  We are currently working to define environmental sustainability 
criteria across the product life cycle and plan to establish public sustainable 
medicine targets in 2022. 
Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability and Impact Reduction Standard requires 
all sites to develop a systematic approach to conserve energy and improve 
efficiency. Sites identified as medium and large energy users are required to 
establish environmental sustainability teams and to develop and maintain 
sustainability master plans that include prioritized emission reduction 
opportunities. Project implementation is monitored at the corporate level with 
performance reports provided to company leadership quarterly. Pfizer invests 
an estimated $25-40 million each year to reduce energy demand through 
asset replacement, efficiency improvements, and installation of renewable 
technologies. Transition Risks and Opportunities Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report79
Increased need for medicines that treat climate-
related diseases (medium and long term) and 
increased revenues through demand from new 
and emerging markets as disease patterns shift 
(short term) 
Reduced revenue and potential impact on the 
supply of medicines and vaccines resulting from 
disruption caused by climate-related severe 
weather events (short, medium and long term) Risk or opportunity 
Risk or opportunity Potential impact 
Potential impact How managed 
How managed As global average temperatures and the frequency of extreme weather events increase there will 
likely be an increase and/or geographical shift in the need for medicines, vaccines, and associated 
research and development. 
Climate change presents risks to our operations and those of our suppliers, including the 
potential for property damage, business interruption, and/or loss of stored product as a result of 
more frequent and severe weather events and water availability challenges.  The potential loss 
that could reasonably be expected is challenging to quantify and predict given the number of 
variables but could range from $20 million to $400 million based on facility and product values.  As a biopharmaceutical company we are uniquely positioned to help address 
the global health challenge that is the result of climate change. We evaluate 
our current product portfolio against diseases that are exacerbated by climate 
change to identify medicines and vaccines potentially responsive to this global 
health challenge, such as treatments for various vector and waterborne 
diseases. With an extensive portfolio and expansive geographic reach, we have 
been able to consistently meet the diverse needs of, and provide significant 
value and impact to, patients and health care professionals around the world in 
an innovative, socially responsible and commercially viable manner. 
Pfizer has implemented business continuity programs to ensure our physical 
operations and supply chains are taking steps to mitigate the risk and potential 
impact of interruption.  We have completed an assessment of physical risk for 
all our manufacturing facilities and for over 5,000 of our suppliers using climate 
modeling scenarios predicting temperature increases ranging from 0.2⁰C to 
3⁰C. For our internal manufacturing sites, the output of this analysis supports 
decisions related to business continuity and recovery planning at the sites.  
Pfizer’s Loss Prevention and Business Continuity programs identify potential 
supply chain vulnerabilities and establish contingency plans to maintain 
supply, e.g., alternative sourcing options and holding multiple weeks of buffer 
inventory (depending on product). Pfizer maintains resources for assessing 
and establishing business continuity arrangements such as the activation of 
alternative supply chains. Supply chain and business continuity professionals 
are retained as staff and consultants to ensure these plans are updated at least 
annually, exercised at least annually, and key colleagues on site are trained on 
their content and implementation. Transition Risks and Opportunities - continued
Physical Risk Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report80
Metrics & Targets 
Pfizer calculates Scope 1 and 2 emissions in accordance with 
the GHG Protocol (revised edition).  Our 2020 GHG footprint 
(including Scope 3 categories 1-8 and 15) was independently 
assured pursuant to ISAE 3000 (revised) by ERM CVS and 
verification of 2021 data is underway.  Emissions are reported 
annually in our CDP response and are broken down by type, 
country and business division.  We also track metrics relative 
to our business continuity and disaster recovery programs 
(e.g., number of supplier assessments completed; sites 
with fully implemented plans for the management of risk 
associated with natural perils such as flooding and severe 
weather, noting it is not possible to state with certainty 
whether individual weather events are a result of climate 
change).  
Pfizer discloses our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions 
annually through our CDP submittal and publishes our Scope 
1+2 emissions in our ESG Report (formerly in our Annual 
Review) and on our website. 
We have achieved three consecutive GHG reduction goals 
(2000-2007, 2007-2012, and 2012-2020) and have reduced our 
GHG emissions over 60% since 2000. We remain committed 
to ambitious long-term actions and have announced our 
ambition to become carbon neutral across our internal 
operations, procuring 100% renewable electricity and 
delivering a 46% absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
emissions from a 2019 baseline. Any remaining emissions will 
be offset through carbon credits.  Additionally, recognizing 
that Scope 3 emissions account for 80% of our carbon 
footprint, we also commit to reducing emissions related to 
upstream logistics by 10% and business travel by 25% by 2025 
from a 2019 baseline, and to use our influence to catalyze 
similar reductions across our value chain.  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report81
This ESG Report details our performance on Environmental, Social and Governance topics and contains non-financial disclosures covering the period of 
January 1, 2021, through December 31, 2021, unless otherwise stated. Our financial disclosures can be found in the 2021 Annual Review and our 2021 
Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will continue to report our ESG performance on an annual basis as a supplement to our Annual Review.  
This report covers all of Pfizer’s global operations included within the 2021 
financial statements, unless otherwise stated. Our priority assessment has 
validated issues that traditionally have been viewed as meaningful to our 
business and our external stakeholders.  
In addition, we intend to continually evaluate our performance reporting 
and enhance our related data collection processes and controls. Some of 
our disclosures in this report are estimates or based on assumptions, due to 
the inherent measurement uncertainties. As an example, because of patient 
privacy laws, data constraints and contractual obligations, we have used 
shipping data, financial performance and third-party reports to determine 
patient counts in support of our KPI measuring the number of patients treated. 
Although we believe such estimates and assumptions are reasonable, actual 
results will vary.  
Except as indicated on this page, the information in this report has not been 
audited, verified or attested to by any third party. We have obtained limited 
assurance verification by ERM-CVS of certain greenhouse gas emissions data 
that we submit to CDP.  
This report has been reviewed by our head of Corporate Affairs, our Chairman 
and CEO, members of our cross-functional Sustainability Steering Committee, 
and the Governance & Sustainability Committee of our Board of Directors.
Global Reporting Frameworks
This report’s content is grounded in our ESG priority assessment and has been 
informed by several globally recognized external frameworks. These include 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB), and Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). 
We relied to some extent on each framework to develop this report while 
formally adhering to none in their entirety.  
Pfizer also considers elements of other ESG indices and sustainability 
indicators – in particular, the Access to Medicine Index (ATMI) and the United 
Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (also known as the Global Goals). 
As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we submit an annual communication 
to the UN on our progress made toward achieving the Global Goals.
Management Assertion
Pfizer has allocated $710 million in net proceeds from the issuance of its March 25, 2020 Sustainability Bond as of December 31, 2021, to the eligible projects 
identified on page 22  of this report in accordance with the Use of Proceeds 
defined on pages S-6 and S-7 of the Prospectus Supplement dated March 25, 
2020, and allocated $1 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of its August 
16, 2021 Sustainability Bond as of December 31, 2021, to the eligible projects 
identified on page 18  of this report in accordance with the Use of Proceeds 
defined on pages S-6 and S-7 of the Prospectus Supplement dated August 
16, 2021. Please see Independent Accountants’ Report ( pg. 82 ) for additional 
information.
Pfizer is responsible for the completeness, accuracy and validity of the 
information and metrics presented in this ESG Report.  
Third Party Websites and Links
This ESG Report may contain references or links to other websites maintained 
by third parties over whom Pfizer has no control. Such links are provided 
merely as a convenience. Pfizer makes no warranties or representations of 
any kind as to the accuracy, currency, or completeness of any information 
contained in such third-party websites, including any third-party social 
media or mobile app platform. The information contained on our website, 
our Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn pages or our Twitter accounts is not 
incorporated by reference into this ESG Report. Inclusion of any third-party 
link in this ESG Report does not imply an endorsement or recommendation 
by Pfizer and a link to this ESG Report from another website does not imply a 
relationship between Pfizer and any third party. Your use of any such third-
party site or platform is at your own risk and will be governed by such third 
party’s terms and policies (including its privacy policy). 
Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) Statement
This Pfizer 2021 ESG Report includes discussion of the COVID-19 vaccine that 
Pfizer has co-developed with BioNTech (BNT162b2) and our oral COVID-19 
treatment (PaxlovidTM). The vaccine may be referred to by its brand name, 
Comirnaty (approved under a BLA), or as BNT162b2 (authorized under EUA). 
The vaccine is FDA-approved to prevent COVID-19 in individuals 16 years 
of age and older. The vaccine is authorized by the FDA to prevent COVID-19 
in individuals 5 years of age and older. In addition, Comirnaty/BNT162b2 
is authorized by the FDA for a third dose in certain immunocompromised 
individuals 5 years of age and older and as a booster dose in individuals 12 
years of age and older. Paxlovid has been authorized for emergency use by the FDA under an EUA, for the treatment of mild-to-moderate COVID-19 in 
adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 
kg [88 lbs]) with positive results of direct SARS CoV-2 viral testing, and who 
are at high-risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including hospitalization 
or death. The emergency uses are only authorized for the duration of the 
declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization of emergency 
use of the medical product under Section 564(b)(1) of the FFDCA unless the 
declaration is terminated or authorization revoked sooner. The FDA has issued 
EUAs to certain other companies for products intended for the prevention or 
treatment of COVID-19 and may continue to do so during the duration of the 
Declaration. Please see the EUA Fact Sheets at www.cvdvaccine-us.com  and 
www.covid19oralrx.com .
Forward Looking Statements
This ESG Report includes forward-looking statements about, among other 
things, our performance on Environmental, Social and Governance topics, our 
ESG goals and targets, company strategies, product pipeline, in-line products, 
product candidates, and growth potential, and our efforts to respond to 
COVID-19, including the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine for COVID-19 and our 
oral COVID-19 treatment (Paxlovid™) that are subject to substantial risks and 
uncertainties. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be 
realized. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should 
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially 
from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Please refer 
to Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, 
and Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including the sections thereof 
captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That 
May Affect Future Results,” as well as Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 
8-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the 
forward-looking statements included in this ESG Report. These reports are 
available on our website at www.pfizer.com  and on the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission’s (SEC) website at www.sec.gov . The forward-looking 
statements in this ESG Report speak only as of the original date of this ESG 
Report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these 
statements, as the result of new information or future events or developments 
or otherwise.
For questions or feedback, contact Chris Gray, Head of ESG:
Chris.Gray@pfizer.comAbout This Report
AppendixPfizer 2021 ESG Report82
To Pfizer Inc.’s Management:
We have examined management of Pfizer Inc.’s (“Pfizer”) assertion 
on page 81 of the Pfizer 2021 Environmental, Social & Governance 
Report  (the “Report”) that Pfizer has allocated $710 million in net 
proceeds from the issuance of its March 25, 2020, 2.625% Notes 
due April 1, 2030, and has allocated $1,000 million in net proceeds 
from the issuance of its August 16, 2021, 1.750% Senior Notes due 
August 18, 2031 as of December 31, 2021 to the eligible projects 
identified on pages 22  and 18  of this Report (collectively, the 
“Allocations”), in accordance with the Use of Proceeds as defined 
on pages S-6 and S-7 of the Prospectus Supplement dated March 
25, 2020 and as defined on pages S-6 and S-7 of the Prospectus 
Supplement dated August 16, 2021 (collectively, the “Prospectus 
Supplement”), respectively. Pfizer’s management is responsible 
for its assertion. Our responsibility is to express an opinion that 
the Allocations were performed in accordance with the Use of 
Proceeds defined within the Prospectus Supplements based on our 
examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation 
standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform 
the examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 
management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects. An 
examination involves performing procedures to obtain evidence 
about management’s assertion. The nature, timing, and extent of 
the procedures selected depend on our judgment, including an 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of management’s 
assertion, whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the 
evidence we obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.Our examination was not conducted for the purpose of evaluating 
Pfizer’s 2021 Environmental, Social & Governance Report or any of 
the metrics contained herein. Thus, we did not audit or opine on 
the sufficiency, completeness, appropriateness or accuracy of the 
reporting criteria or methodology of such metrics. Accordingly, we 
do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance other 
than on whether the Allocations were performed in accordance 
with the Use of Proceeds set forth in the Prospectus Supplements.
In our opinion, management’s assertion that the Allocations were 
performed in accordance with the Use of Proceeds set forth in the 
Prospectus Supplements, is fairly stated in all material respects.
 
New York, New York
March 17, 2022 
AppendixIndependent Accountants’ Report
Pfizer 2021 ESG Report
The product information provided in this
site is intended only for residents of the
United States. The products discussed
herein may have different product labeling
in different countries.
Copyright © 2021-2022 Pfizer Inc.
All rights reserved
Pfizer Inc. 235 East 42nd Street, NY, NY, 10017
(212) 733-2323
www.pfizer.com