2007 Corporate Responsibility Report
Partnering for Positive ChangeStrong Actions
overview 2 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportTable of ConTenTs
Pursuing Innovative Solutions
1  We Pursue Innovative Solutions
2 Chairman’s Letter to Stakeholders
4 Who We Ar e
5 Pfizer Corporate Responsibility
8  Progress on 2006 Commitments
10  Operating with a New Stakeholder Model
Addressing Key Issues16 Finding Cures and Treatments 
32 Investing in Health
50 Strengthening Patient SafetyImproving Our Business Practices60 Environment, Health and Safety 
74 Governance and Compliance
80 Sales and Marketing
85 Public Policy 
96 Employees
103 Manufacturing/Supply Chain
108 Looking Ahead
Indices109 GRI Index
115 Indexoverview Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 Medical innovation is the core of our business.  
it’s a force for good—for patients, for those who seek to stay healthy, and for society at large. Yet, our 
responsibilities and potential impact go far beyond 
the medicines we discover and develop. They include providing the value that our stakeholders seek.
we engage our stakeholders and partners to address 
society’s evolving needs on broad social, ethical and 
environmental fronts. There are many opportunities  to partner on the safety of and access to our medicines, 
on new cures and treatments, and on better health for 
people around the world.
we also believe that good corporate responsibility can 
be a source of business innovation. New partnerships 
that address social needs through business practices 
can foster sustainable healthcare solutions. Pfizer seeks more of these linkages so we can help make the world 
better for our communities, our key stakeholders, and 
all those who want a healthier tomorrow.we Pursue innovative  
Solutions to Health Challenges 
Around the w orld.2 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportCHAirMAN’S LeTTer To STAkeHoLderS
To our Stakeholders,
Pfizer’s most important contribution to society 
remains discovering, developing and bringing to 
market new medicines. But producing even a great 
treatment is not enough. what’s also essential is how responsibly we use our skills and resources to 
invest in health around the world.
Jeff kindler 
Chairman of the Board  
and Chief executive officer
overviewoverview Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 That’s why i am pleased to share with you Pfizer’s 2007 Corporate responsibility 
report. it is much more detailed than the previous report because our commit-
ment to serving society reaches farther, includes more areas, and involves more 
partners than ever before.
of course, sustainable programs of corporate responsibility work best when 
we invest in the health of communities and invest in the health of our business. This means that for Pfizer, corporate responsibility must be the work of every department—on every day. 
And so you will see in these pages the tangible results, throughout our  
company, of commitment to one of our chief priorities this year: collaborating with and providing more value to stakeholders—whether patients, doctors, 
healthcare payers, nongovernmental organizations or the community.
You will see in this report not just rhetoric but results, whether in reducing 
accidents in the workplace or reducing the energy we use. You will see us  reach out to the communities in which we operate, whether helping schools, 
or promoting good health. You will see the ways Pfizer colleagues partner with stakeholders to support innovative public health programs in oncology and  
tobacco independence—and volunteer for work combating infectious diseases in 
the least-developed areas of the world.
You will see in this report new partnership and philanthropy models, creating 
initiatives that answer questions we’ve asked ourselves: How can we enhance the healthcare available to those in the poorest areas of the world? How do we make sure that our customers can be confident our medicines are safe and effective— 
and that we inform them about benefits and risks? in a world concerned about 
greenhouse gases, how can we reduce our environmental footprint?
And while laws and regulations mandate responsible action, at Pfizer we  
are determined to go beyond compliance. w e want not just to follow the law— 
but lead the way. That’s especially true when it comes to becoming more  transparent—in plain english, letting you know what we’re doing.
And so in this report, you will also see ways to go online at www.pfizer.com  
and discover how we:•	 Post	the	status	of	our	post-marketing	studies—the	first	company	to	do	so
•	 Provide	results	of	all	our	registered	clinical	trial	studies
•	 Open	to	public	view	what’s	in	our	pipeline•	 Disclose	US	political	contributions	twice	a	year
•		Plan	to	disclose	grants	to	US	medical	associations	and	patient	groups,	 
beginning next year.
we cannot forget that as we talk about the programs and initiatives described 
here, they stem from the work of real people, dedicated to change. These are  my Pfizer colleagues working in more than 100 countries. i applaud them all. They symbolize the new Pfizer: moving quickly to take the lead, embracing  innovation, achieving results responsibly—and improving life for others around 
the world.
Sincerely,
Jeff Kindler
Chairman of the Board
and Chief executive officerOUr	valUeS
INTEGRITY
RESPECT FOR PEOPLECUSTOMER FOCUSCOMMUNITYINNOVATIONTEAMWORKPERFORMANCELEADERSHIPQUALITYoverview 4 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportwho w e Are
Founded in New York in 1849, Pfizer 
is the world’s largest research-based 
pharmaceutical company. Taking new 
approaches to better health, we discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines 
to treat and help prevent disease in both 
people and animals. Through consistent, high-quality manufacturing and distribution 
operations, our medicines reach patients  
in more than 100 countries. w e also partner with healthcare providers, governments, nongovernmental organizations, local 
communities and other stakeholders around 
the world to expand access to our medicines and to provide better-quality healthcare 
and health system support. At Pfizer, our 
colleagues work every day to help people stay happier and healthier longer, and to 
reduce the human and economic burden of 
disease worldwide. 
PFizer FACTS*
Headquarters in New York City
89,000 employees worldwide
Lines of Business  
– Human Health Pharmaceuticals 
– Animal Health Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Operates in more than 100 countries
$48.4 billion in revenues, the world’s largest 
pharmaceutical company
$7.6 billion in Research & Development11 R&D therapeutic areas
One of the world’s leading medicines, Lipitor
®,  
which is a treatment for high cholesterol
World’s largest animal health company and leader  
in annual animal health R&D investment
US EPA Climate Leader member$1.7 billion in Pfizer Inc philanthropic contributions
Accolades at www.pfizer.com/accolades
*All numbers are for fiscal year 2006OUr	leaDing	meDicineS
Cardiovascular,  
Metabolic & Endocrine
 CADUET® 
 ExUBERA® 
 GENOTROPIN® 
 LIPITOR® 
 NORVASC® 
 REVATIO®
Neuroscience
 GEODON® / ZELDOx® 
 REBIF® 
 ZOLOFT®
Infectious Diseases
 ERAxIS® 
 VFEND® 
 ZMAx® 
 ZYVOx®
Genitourinary
 DETROL® / DETROL LA® 
 VIAGRA®Oncology
 AROMASIN® 
 CAMPTOSAR® 
 SUTENT®
Pain
 LYRICA® 
 RELPAx®
Inflammation
 CELEBREx®
Allergy & Respiratory
 CHANTIx® / CHAMPIx®
Ophthalmology
 xALATAN® / xALACOM®
tO	cOntact	US
Please see www.pfizer.com/contact or write to our  
corporate mailing address at Corporate Responsibility,  
235 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017.overview Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Why Corporate Responsibility (CR)?
In today’s world, being a responsible company is the only 
smart way to operate in both the short-term and long-term. 
To be responsible and accountable—socially, ethically and 
environmentally—is to be trusted. We need that trust to serve our diverse stakeholders and support a sustainable enterprise. 
We know trust is built over time with actions, not words. This 
report reflects progress in our actions and acknowledges areas where we still need to improve. 
Corporate Responsibility and  the Board of Directors
The Pfizer Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance Committee charter requires directors to “consider the 
perspectives of stakeholders in the company’s decisions 
regarding current and emerging political, social and public policy issues.” The Board receives information about 
stakeholder perceptions and opinions by various means 
including direct email from the public (see www.pfizer.com/corpgov), Pfizer senior executives’ reports, annual shareholder 
proposals, and Directors’ own personal and professional 
networks.
Integration of Corporate Responsibility
Integrating our corporate responsibility is not just updating data and meeting certain social responsibility codes. It is 
about changing our behavior and resource allocation—
changing the way we operate, communicate and partner with stakeholders.
On a daily basis, Pfizer Corporate Responsibility is 
managed globally by a team that is part of Worldwide Public Affairs and Policy. The team is responsible for developing 
this CR report, establishing Pfizer’s CR partnerships with 
various socially responsible investors, nongovernmental and multilateral organizations, and coordinating with different 
global Pfizer functional and business areas. The team’s focus 
is to foster and support integration of CR throughout the company with a strong emphasis on stakeholder engagement. 
The team also serves as an internal-external bridge to foster 
communication for new ideas. 
We integrate corporate responsibility into how we engage 
on policy issues and even how we develop our medicines. For example, see page 91 on the introduction of our smoking cessation medication Chantix
® (called Champix® in Europe). About the Report
We are pleased to issue Pfizer’s second report on our corporate responsibility approach and activities. We decided 
to publish this longer report to address key issues in detail, 
supplemented by a summary of our corporate responsibility activities in two printed documents—a 24-page summary 
report and a brochure. Please note that even more information 
about our corporate responsibility activities is available on our website at www.pfizer.com/responsibility.
Scope of Reporting
This report covers Pfizer’s pharmaceutical and animal health 
businesses. Pfizer’s consumer products business was sold 
to Johnson & Johnson at the end of 2006. This Corporate Responsibility Report includes activities and data from 
the calendar year 2006, including data from our consumer 
products business. The environmental performance data does not include our consumer products business. Additional 
updates from 2007 are referenced where relevant. We 
remain committed to internationally recognized standards for CR reporting and we will continue to review our reporting 
practices in light of evolving standards including external 
assurance standards. 
Materiality
The content of this report is based on a materiality analysis focusing on two key factors—the importance to stakeholders 
and the potential to influence business strategy. Materiality 
was assessed by an internal cross-divisional team representing the key businesses and by an external advisory group.  
Stakeholder Inclusiveness
We listen to our stakeholders and value their perspectives.  
In keeping with the principle of stakeholder inclusiveness,  
we have identified our stakeholders in this report, the feedback we have received, and how we have responded  
to their expectations and interests. To contact us, please see  
www.pfizer.com/contact. 
Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability  
Reporting GuidelinesWe considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) in preparing  
this report and include a comprehensive GRI index.  We self-declare this report to GRI Application Level B.  
For information on GRI, please see www.globalreporting.or gPfizer Corporate responsibilityoverview Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 6Global Pharmaceutical Industry Key Strengths
Unprompted, Total Mentions*, 2006
Innovation / R&D / New medicines
DK/NAOtherProducing genericsPromotions / Marketing to publicMaking a profitCompetitive / Responsive to market pressureCollaboration with/Disseminating information to healthcare communityMaking products affordableSupporting charitiesActs responsibly/in the public interestSocietal contributions / Helping poorQuality/Effective medicinesConsumer/Public health educationDisease prevention / ImmunizationImproving life expectancyTreats employees wellAbility to produce/distribute supply52
15
2
9
4
3
13
6
2
2
9
6
22
3
2
16
5Top mention in 2004 as well. Innovation / R&D (52%)
Operational responsibilities (17%)
Prevention and wellness (16%)
Safe/Effective medicines (13%)
Social responsibilities (10%)
Cost/Affordability of medicines (9%)
Collaboration with/Disseminating information
to healthcare community (6%)
Profitability (4%)
Promotions / Marketing to public (3%)Global Public/Civil Sector View
* Respondents were asked for multiple mentions; the measure is calculated as a percentage of total respondents and the total can exceed 100.  ** DK / NA – Don’t Know / Not Available
The sample size for the first study, conducted in 2004, for the US survey was n=50; in 2006 the sample size was increased to n=100. To ensure comparability of the 2004 and 2006 data, Japan was removed from the 2004 data set, and the 
US data was “weighted up” to 100 respondents instead of 50. In terms of the total sample, the US respondents “have more weight” than the other countries where 50 stakeholders were interviewed in 2004 and 2006.To better understand the global civil sector on a wide range of healthcare issues in 2004 and 2006, the global research firm GlobeScan conducted 
interviews on behalf of Pfizer with 350 healthcare opinion leaders from China, Great Britain, Japan, Mexico, South Africa and the US with representatives from government, health policy, NGOs and multilateral organizations as shown below. The results from the 2004 survey were included in our 2005 Corporate Citizenship Report.
Global Pharmaceutical Industry Key Weaknesses
Unprompted, Total Mentions*, 2006
30
2
15
15
7
6
9
12
6
11
2
1111
1
2
1
5
3
3
2
22
47
1Product unaffordable / High prices
DK/NAOtherChaotic market conditions / No proper standards setPatent protection / Blocking generic drugsAccess to/Availability of drugsDirect-to-consumer marketing / Spending on marketingDrug-induced suffering/side effectsSafe/Effective medicineToo much waste (oversupply, administration)Poor manufacturing process/standardsLack of cost policy/control/planningStrained regulatory environment/legislative relationshipsLack of collaboration with healthcare communityAddressing the customer’s needProblems with pharmaceutical salesmanship/selling methodsInterference with/Selling to doctorsIrresponsible / No concern for qualityInnovation / R&DCommunicating/Demonstrating value for moneyTransparency regarding role/risks/clinical trialsCommunications / Public relations / ImageInattention to diseases of developing worldLack of social responsibility/clinical values/ethicsProfit-driven business modelFocus on profitable over less profitable drugsAffordability / Access to drugs
Down 7 points.Cost/Affordability of medicines (32%)
Profits before people (43%)
Communications / Image / Transparency (17%)
Innovation / R&D (12%)
Irresponsible, unethical behavior (8%)
External relationship management (4%)
Operational problems (3%)
Safe/Effective medicines (3%)overview Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 our Corporate  
responsibility Standards  
and evaluation Partners 
US EPA Climate Leaders
www.epa.gov/stateply
Pfizer is a charter member company under the US 
Environmental Protection Agency Climate Leaders Program. This is a voluntary industry-government 
partnership that works with climate change strategies 
and sets greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals.Transparency International (TI)
www.transparency.or g
An NGO with a network of local chapters in more than 
90 countries, TI’s goal is to combat corruption and bribery. Pfizer has served on TI’s Steering Committee on 
Business Principles for Countering Bribery since 2003, 
and in 2005 joined the Board of TI-USA. 
  United Nations Global Compact 
www.globalcompact.or g
Pfizer has been a member since 2002 of this network 
of UN agencies, companies, nongovernmental 
organizations, labor groups and civil society that 
supports a shared set of principles on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. In 2007, 
Pfizer attended the Global Compact Leaders Summit 
in Geneva on “Facing Realities: Getting Down to Business.” It was an invitation-only event hosted by UN 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. The summit focused 
on creating and supporting sustainable markets around the world. In addition, Pfizer signed “Caring for Climate: 
The Business Leadership Platform” to advance climate 
change solutions.S.E.E. Change / Climate Resolve
seechange.businessroundtable.or g/
The Business Roundtable’s S.E.E. (Social, 
Environmental, Economic) Change Initiative is a voluntary program for member companies to adopt 
sustainability principles as a business planning tool.  
We are also members of the Business Roundtable’s  Climate Resolve Initiative and in 2007 agreed to a  
new statement on climate change.
Dow Jones Sustainable Asset Management 
(DJSAM)
www.sam-group.com/htmle/main.cfm
DJSAM is a research organization that evaluates 
companies as sustainable investments. Pfizer has been selected to be in the DJSAM Index since 2000. Last 
year, Pfizer had leading scores in corporate governance, 
environmental reporting, talent attraction and retention, and stakeholder engagement. 
FTSE4Good 
www.ftse4good.com
This index series, created by the UK FTSE Group, 
measures the performance of companies against globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. 
Pfizer has met FTSE4Good Social Responsibility Index 
criteria since March 2002. 
Global Accountability Project (GAP) 
www.oneworldtrust.or g
GAP is part of the Accountability Program at One World  
Trust, an NGO that aims to generate wider commitment 
to the principles and values of accountability. In 
December 2006, the GAP Index rated Pfizer as among 
the most transparent and accountable organizations of the 30 reviewed in detail. 
Institute for Supply Chain Management (ISM)
www.ism.ws/index.cfm 
A member organization of supply chain professionals, 
ISM developed supply chain standards for social responsibility that focus on community, diversity, environment, ethics, human rights, financial 
responsibility and safety. Pfizer signed on to these 
principles in 2005. overview 8 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportProgress on 2006 Commitments
foCus area 2006 CommiTmenTs*
Research &  
Development 
Clinical Trialprogress
Submit 20 new medicines for FDA 
approval between 2001 and 2006Pfizer submitted 19 new medicines for approval by the end of 2006.
Disclose results of all late-stage 
clinical trials on our marketed 
productsPfizer has and continues to disclose the results of its late-stage clinical trials on 
marketed products. In addition, in 2007, we expanded our commitment to include 
every Pfizer-sponsored clinical study in patients on the NIH-sponsored website  
www.clinicaltrials.gov. This includes Phase 1 trials and non-interventional studies  with prospective data. 
Global Manufacturing Apply advanced science and 
technology in the manufacture 
of medicines to produce cost-
effective high-quality products•		A	comprehensive	Technology & Innovation strategy is in place aimed at saving  
$5 billion over 10 years through the introduction of new technologies and processes. 
•		Extensive	use	of	enzymes	instead	of	chemical	reagents	is	an	important	component	
and will yield significant environmental benefits as well as cost reduction. For example, a new process has been adopted for Lyrica
® manufacture which is not 
only significantly cheaper but will eliminate up to 5 million gallons per year of  
solvent usage. 
Continue to reduce injuries,  
energy use, wastes and emissions, 
relative to production levels and 
the number of colleagues•		Compared	to	2005,	Pfizer	Global	Manufacturing	(PGM)	lost	time	accident	rate	
decreased by 12 percent and total injury rate went down by 8 percent. 
•		PGM	energy	consumption	was	reduced	by	10	percent	compared	to	2005,	bringing	
CO 2 emissions down by 9 percent adjusted for acquisitions and divestitures. 
•		PGM	hazardous	waste	was	reduced	by	18	percent	and	nonhazardous	waste	by	 
19 percent. Excluding divested and closed sites, hazardous waste was reduced  
by 10 percent and nonhazardous waste by 2 percent.More information available in 
EHS section (page 60)
Offer our resources and talent  
to respond to global disasters, 
such as we did with the Southeast 
Asian tsunami and Hurricanes Katrina and RitaWe continue to offer our colleagues and resources though the Pfizer Global Health 
Fellows program, to combat infectious diseases in areas where they are most endemic. 
For more information on this program please see pages 43-44 and 49.We review key suppliers of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and all contract 
manufacturers of either API or final drug products. In 2006, 100 EHS reviews were 
completed to assure the responsibility of these key suppliers. Reviews were done  
globally, with a particular focus on China and India. The results are considered in our supplier decisions.Ensure that contract 
manufacturers and key suppliers 
have responsible environment, 
health and safety (EHS) management related to production 
of materials for Pfizer
Support the communities in which 
we operate manufacturing plants 
through community outreach 
activities focused on education, public health, safety and 
improvement of the environment•		All	PGM	sites,	including	major	logistics	centers,	established	community	outreach	
programs. Over 140 projects were implemented as part of this effort. 
•		PGM	sites	obtained	39	EHS	awards	from	government	and	other	external	
organizations. 
Corporate 
ResponsibilityFollow internationally recognized 
standard for corporate 
responsibility reporting, such as 
the Global Reporting InitiativePfizer considered the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) in preparing this 
report and included a comprehensive GRI Index. We self-declare this report to GRI 
Application Level B.
Develop corporate responsibility 
performance measuresPfizer has worked with internal and external stakeholders to better understand our CR 
performance and ways that we can improve in this area (pages 6-13). We are using this 
information to develop metrics for use in our next reporting cycle. 
*  As stated in Pfizer’s 2005 Corporate Citizenship Report. Given the transition Pfizer is undergoing, commitments for 2008 will be posted on our Corporate Responsibility website  
at www.pfizer.com/responsibility in 2008.overview Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Access to Medicines Provide training for employees to 
most effectively work with NGOs 
in developing countriesPfizer commissioned independent monitoring and evaluation studies through the 
Boston University School of Public Health to understand program impacts and how to 
increase the program value for beneficiaries. As a result, a three-day training has been 
incorporated into Pfizer’s Global Health Fellows (GHF) program operations.
Present Global Health Fellows 
model and provide support to 
private sector to replicate it Through a partnership with the Brookings Institution’s International Volunteerism 
Initiative, Pfizer has been working to promote International Corporate Volunteerism. 
Meanwhile, Pfizer has advised and supported several companies in their efforts to 
establish Fellowship programs, including BD and Ernst & Young.
Provide 35 million doses of 
antibiotic to treat active trachoma 
infection worldwideThrough the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI), 17 million treatments of Zithromax® 
(azithromycin) were provided in 13 countries in 2006. The shortfall was due to delays 
in scaling up the program in some countries due to bureaucratic or customs clearance 
issues, the reduced incidence of trachoma, and zones of armed conflict. In 2007, as of presstime, the ITI is on target to reach 35 million doses by yearend.foCus area 2006 CommiTmenTs* progress
Sales and Marketing Educate physicians for a minimum 
of six months about a new 
prescription medicine prior to 
beginning TV and print advertising•		As	of	June	2007,	Pfizer	will	have	spent	11	months	following	the	commercial	
availability of Chantix® in the US educating physicians about this product without 
running any branded consumer TV or print advertising. We will continue to educate 
healthcare professionals for several more months prior to beginning any branded 
consumer advertising. 
•		Exubera® branded advertising began in 2007, more than 9 months following the first 
commercial availability of the product in the US. During this time, Pfizer has invested 
significant resources in educating physicians and educators about Exubera® and the 
use of inhaled insulin.
Include language in product 
TV and print ads informing 
consumers that doctors 
may recommend alternative treatments, including lifestyle 
changes, when appropriatePfizer medicines are not for everyone and our advertising makes that clear.  
We will continue to use language in all our advertising to ensure that consumers know 
that their physician may recommend something other than the advertised product, 
including diet and exercise.
Stop using “reminder ads” on  
TV and in consumer magazines  
with the exception of sponsorship-
related activitiesIn 2006, Pfizer has not run any TV or print reminder advertisements.
Use a new consumer-friendly 
and consumer-tested print brief 
summary in all product print adsThe majority of Pfizer print advertisements have an Important Facts brief summary and 
others are in development.
Increase advertising efforts  
behind disease awareness and 
Pfizer Helpful Answers Pfizer educates people about Pfizer Helpful Answers in a number of ways, including 
campaigns on radio, print and online advertising and local events to help uninsured 
Americans learn about programs that can help them to save on medicines. Through 
our outreach efforts, Pfizer is enrolling many new patients in our patient assistance programs. 
Submit to the FDA for review  
all new DTC TV ads in advance 
of airingPfizer submits all new DTC TV advertising campaigns to the FDA for review in advance 
of airing. Pfizer supports the FDA having the appropriate resources to conduct these 
reviews and has been a proponent of advertising review fees as outlined in FDARA 
legislation. 
Ensure ads are targeted to 
appropriate audiences; will air 
erectile dysfunction ads only 
during programs with more than 90 percent adult viewershipViagra® advertising is placed on TV programming that has a minimum of  
90 percent adult viewership.
*  As stated in Pfizer’s 2005 Corporate Citizenship Report. Given the transition Pfizer is undergoing, commitments for 2008 will be posted on our Corporate Responsibility website  
at www.pfizer.com/responsibility in 2008.overview 10 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportoperating with a New Stakeholder Model
Stakeholders are people or groups who affect, or are affected 
by, Pfizer’s business activities. We share with them an 
overarching goal—good health for all people at manageable 
costs, and a healthcare system that is sustainable.
Our relationships with stakeholders are at the heart of our 
corporate responsibility because they define what it means for Pfizer to create value. That is why Jeff Kindler, after being named CEO in July 2006, and the new senior management 
team met with a variety of stakeholders. They wanted to find 
out what was on stakeholders’ minds, what worked well—and what needed to be strengthened. Some of the company’s new 
priorities and actions are a result of these discussions. Here 
are just some of the stakeholders our senior management met with in the past year:
•	American Heart Association
•	 American	Lung	Association
•	American Medical Association
•	Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids
•	Easter Seals (disability services)
•	 Institutional	and	other	shareholders•	International Alliance of Patients’ Organizations
•	National Alliance for the Mentally Ill
•	 National	and	local	government	leaders•		Organization for Economic and Cooperation  
Development (OECD)
•	Oxfam Great Britain and Oxfam America
•	 Pfizer	colleagues	around	the	world•	Pharmaceutical Industry Labor Management Association
•	Sheet Metal Workers International Association
•	Women Impacting Public Policy
•	World Health Organization 
Senior management heard a spectrum of comments from 
stakeholders, ranging from Pfizer being seen as an inflexible business partner, to questions about the stock price and from 
awe at Pfizer’s scientists for their skills and dedication, to 
surprise at the scope of our partnerships in improving access 
to medicines. 
However, most stakeholders agree that, given the 
complexity of public health problems facing the world today,  no single entity—government, corporation, academic 
institution, nongovernmental organization, civic organization or others—can solve healthcare issues alone. It takes all of us 
working together, contributing our respective strengths. 
Some stakeholders have different views on how to 
achieve healthcare goals. Our challenge is to build on areas of agreement and find common ground. To achieve this, we seek 
to constantly improve our communications and transparency, to listen and respond better to stakeholders, and to learn 
from them. We also share insights on how the pharmaceutical industry works as part of wider healthcare systems. We 
need strong and trusting partnerships to make progress on 
improving global health.
Given this reality, we will continue to engage stakeholders 
regularly and continue to share knowledge, skills and goals  on how to prevent or manage diseases, get medicines to  
the people who need them, and promote good health among diverse populations. These partnerships take many forms— 
as described in this report.
Channels for Engaging Stakeholders: 
•	 Advisory	boards	on	issues	and	products
•	 Associations	and	networks	for	patient	advocates
•	 Conferences	at	international,	regional	and	national	levels
•	 Dialogues	with	multicultural	stakeholder	groups•	 Email	and	letter	responses
•	 External	compliance	hotlines
•	 Focus	groups	with	different	stakeholders•	 Grassroots	outreach	programs	within	communities
•	 Management-employee	advisory	councils	and	“townhalls”
•	 Media	briefings	and	interviews	with	journalists•		Meetings,	briefings	and	feedback	sessions	with	investors,	
customers, legislators and regulators
•		Partnerships	in	the	field	with	NGOs	and	MLOs
•	 Pfizer.com	website	interactive	features
•		Professional	trade	associations	for	science	and	business
•	 Sales	calls	to	physicians
•	 Surveys	of	colleagues	and	customers
WHO Health Evidence Network
www.euro.who.int/HEN
Pfizer supports the important work of the World Health 
Organization (WHO) Health Evidence Network (HEN), which provides policymakers with independent and 
ready-to-use evidence-based information on public 
health and healthcare issues. HEN also provides easy access to other international databases and sources of 
information. The scope of HEN’s work corresponds with 
the 14 strategic technical objectives of WHO. In 2007, 
based on stakeholder dialogue, we offered suggestions 
on potential healthcare topics and the creation of work groups and policy briefs to support public healthcare 
decision-makers while respecting their independence. 
We also support HEN with an unrestricted grant, and with technical and scientific expertise.overview Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 
                         W
O
R
LD
W
ID
E PU
BLIC       LEGAL, FINANCE,       PFIZER ANIMAL         CHIEF MEDICAL      PFIZER EXECUTIVE         PFIZER GLOBAL              
GLOBAL HEALTH
 AND ECONOMIC
PROSPERITYCUSTOMERS 
    
INVESTORSHEALTHCARE 
PARTNERSCOMMUNITIESGOVERNMENT
BUSINESS
PARTNERSCOLLEAGUESPATIENTS
TEAM R&DAFFA
IR
S AN
D
 POLICY PFIZER GLOBAL
MANUFACTURINGPHARM
ACEU
TIC
A
LW
ORLDW
ID
EOPERATIO
N
S
HUMAN RESOURCESHEALTHOFFICERPfizer’s New Stakeholder Model
Today, in a networked world, we focus  
on mutual goals—on pursuing innovative solutions to global health challenges with  our stakeholders as partners. This also  helps build economic prosperity.Pfizer’s Old Stakeholder Model
Previously, we engaged with stakeholders  one-on-one in areas of shared interest.
11
 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report overviewoverview 12 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportChanging How w e integrate 
Stakeholder Needs
We are seeking to provide more social value today, as well as 
medical results, because that is what society is asking of us. 
By better serving our key stakeholders, we ultimately better 
serve our shareholders. 
For a macro view of this change, please see the chart 
on page 11. We are hiring a diverse workforce to reflect the diverse societies in which we operate. This is one way to give society a stronger “voice” within Pfizer—to employ in 
influential positions colleagues from biotech firms, patient 
advocacy groups, health professionals’ organizations, insurance providers, governments, think tanks and academia 
who influence our dialogue. This diversity changes how we 
think and operate at the very core of our business. Changes on the day-to-day level, for example, are evident in our ACE 
(Aligning Customer Excellence) Program in Europe (page 84). 
We also engage directly with stakeholders through issue 
advisory boards, employee surveys, conferences, small meetings and public-private partnerships. Some approaches 
have predefined feedback and follow-up methods. Other approaches are more informal and help shape future goals 
and activities. 
Following are two new initiatives from early 2007:
Pharma Futures II: Prescription for  
Long-Term Value
www.pharmafutures.or g
A senior Pfizer executive participated in Pharma 
Futures II, a dialogue initiated by pension funds and pharmaceutical companies to create a better understanding among all participants about the 
significant challenges in the healthcare sector, and 
the pharmaceutical industry’s role in finding solutions with other stakeholders. Pension funds included ABP 
Netherlands, the Ohio Public Employees Retirement 
System, and the Universities Superannuation Scheme in the UK. Participants discussed a range of subjects, 
including the changing healthcare landscape around 
the world, biomedical R&D productivity, access to medicines, and clinical trials in emerging markets.  
The Pharma Futures II report is available on the website 
listed above.Improved Patient and Medical Group 
Transparency
We continue to take significant steps to improve our 
transparency in how we partner with patient and 
medical organizations. 
Patient and medical groups carry out valuable work 
to improve the lives of people with a particular disease or medical condition. They often look to industry 
partners to provide financial support and other skills for their activities. This is one way we contribute to 
the improvement of patients’ lives beyond our core 
business of developing innovative medicines. For example:
In the United Kingdom
www.pfizer.co.uk/template4.asp?pageid=392
In the UK we are required, as a member of the 
Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, 
to publish a list of the patient organizations we work with. As part of our commitment to working with these 
groups in an open and transparent way, Pfizer UK has 
gone beyond the UK industry code and described the full nature of our relationships with these groups, as 
noted on our website above. 
In the United States 
www.pfizermededgrants.com
In the US, in 2008, we will develop a disclosure plan 
for educational grants and include stakeholders in our planning process, as noted on our website above. This 
will ensure stakeholders’ views are considered as the 
reporting process is developed. Continuing medical education, sponsored by these grants, provides 
educational opportunities to physicians and other 
healthcare professionals that help them to improve patient care.overview Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Some social or environmental problems can only be solved  
by collective action, when stakeholders from an entire industry 
or a cross-section of society band together for the greater 
good—when “all hands on deck” can provide solutions most effectively. We try to demonstrate our corporate responsibility 
by taking a leadership role in such collective actions, either 
within the biomedical community or in cross-sector initiatives.  
We know that working with our colleagues from other companies 
and civil institutions results in more effective, long-term 
solutions. 
Examples include:Working to Provide Coverage for the Uninsured
www.coalitionfortheuninsured.or g
With approximately 47 million Americans still lacking 
healthcare coverage, Pfizer joined a highly diverse group of 16 public-private partners to rethink the issue 
and lay out a path for progress. Over the past two years, 
this coalition, the Health Coverage Coalition for the Uninsured (HCCU), comprised of healthcare providers, 
trade associations and activist groups, developed 
consensus recommendations for covering a significant number of the uninsured. On January 18, 2007, the 
coalition released an agreement which all the parties 
endorsed, in what we think is a national healthcare first in the US. For more information on the key principles 
and recommendations, please see page 89.Partnership for Quality Medical Donations
www.pqmd.or g
PQMD is dedicated to advancing the quality of medical 
products delivered to underserved people and disaster victims around the world. Pfizer sponsored two key 
PQMD projects. We funded a study to develop a 
methodology for estimating the number of patients treated based on the volumes of medicines shipped 
to developing countries by PQMD members. We also 
funded and directed the creation of an educational film that teaches the basics of medical inventory 
management and raises awareness of the supply chain 
management profession globally. The film is available on the website above. PQMD’s current chairman is a Pfizer 
colleague.  The Global Environmental Management Initiative
www.gemi.org/waterplanner/
GEMI is a coalition of companies committed to 
improving sustainable business practices. The initiative’s recent effort is called “Collecting the 
Drops: A Water Sustainability Planner.” Pfizer played 
a leading role in developing this water sustainability tool by providing strategic direction on the approach 
and technical content, based on our own successes 
and challenges with managing water. The planner is designed to help guide a facility through the process 
of assessing and identifying specific water uses and 
needs in comparison to the availability of water in the region; the impact of operations on the available water 
resources; and those factors that may pose a risk to the 
operation’s ability to produce. The planner is available on the website above.our Collective Action15 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report Addressing Key Issues16 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportfinding
cUreS	 anD	treatmentS
our most important contribution is discovering,  
developing and delivering innovative medicines  
that society values to prevent and treat disease. 
To achieve these goals, we are committed  
to improving r&d productivity, increasing the  
transparency of our pipeline and clinical trial  
practices, improving drug safety monitoring, and  
working in partnership with our stakeholders  
to advance the discovery and development of  
effective new medicines.r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS 18 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report2006/2007 key aCTions
Launched innovative new medicines 
to treat major diseases—for two  
hard-to-treat cancers, diabetes, 
tobacco dependence and bloodstream infections.
Received FDA approval for Selzentry
TM* 
(maraviroc), a breakthrough treatment 
for HIV/AIDS.
Established a collaboration with  
the World Health Organization to help find new compounds for diseases  
of the developing world. 
Continued to develop 242 research 
programs—the most Pfizer has ever 
had—spanning 11 therapeutic areas.
Expanded disclosure of our  
clinical trials. Launched www.pfizer.com/pipeline  
to improve R&D transparency.
Established a stem cell research policy  
to guide our external partnerships beginning in 2007.
Partnered with the National Institutes 
of Health (NIH) and biotech firms to 
unravel the genetic causes of common diseases.
 Launched the mainstream 
pharmaceutical industry’s first “incubator” to support early-stage research start-ups.
*SelzentryTM will be known as Celsentri® in all countries outside the US pending regulatory approval.r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Launching Medicines for  
Unmet	medical	needs
Continuous biomedical innovation is 
essential, not only to find cures and effective 
treatments for patients, but also to reduce 
the direct and indirect costs of disease on society, which includes such things as lost 
job productivity. in 2006, Pfizer introduced 
several innovative medicines that are expected to have significant benefits for 
patients and society. They are:Chantix®
Pfizer’s smoking-cessation medicine, Chantix®  
works by reducing the severity of the smoker’s urge  
to smoke, while diminishing the sense of satisfaction  
if a patient smokes during treatment. It’s offered with  a personalized patient support program called GetQuit, 
to help smokers quit. According to many public health, 
cardiovascular, pulmonary and cancer experts, helping smokers quit is one of the most important things a 
physician can do to improve patients’ overall health 
and reduce their risk of developing serious chronic conditions. 
Exubera®
The first inhalable form of insulin, Exubera® meets 
a critical medical need to manage Type 1 and Type 
2 diabetes in adults, by offering a highly effective 
alternative to pills and insulin injections. The global incidence of diabetes is currently at epidemic levels. 
Millions of patients are not achieving or maintaining 
acceptable blood sugar levels, despite the availability  
of current therapies. 
Sutent®
Sutent® is the first medicine ever to be approved 
simultaneously by the FDA to treat two types of deadly 
cancer—advanced renal cell carcinoma, a type of 
kidney cancer, and gastrointestinal stromal tumor, known as GIST. Also approved to treat these diseases 
by the European Union, Sutent
® not only kills cancer 
cells but starves the tumors of blood and nutrients. Pfizer is now investigating its efficacy in breast, lung 
and colorectal cancers.
r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS 20 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report
  Developing a Breakthrough  
Medicine for HIV-AIDS
As resistance to available HIV/AIDS medicines increases, many people living with HIV/AIDS are 
running out of treatment options. For these treatment-
experienced patients, Pfizer’s Selzentry
TM (maraviroc), 
a novel compound in a new class of drugs, may offer 
help where currently available therapies have failed. 
Discovered by Pfizer scientists in 1997, SelzentryTM  
is an oral medicine that blocks viral entry to human 
cells. Rather than fighting HIV inside white blood cells,  
it prevents the virus from entering uninfected cells  by blocking its predominant entry route, the CCR5  
co-receptor. 
In August 2007, the FDA approved Selzentry
TM for  
use along with other antiretroviral agents for treatment-experienced patients infected with CCR5-tropic HIV-1.  
It is the first member of a new class of oral HIV medicines in more than a decade. We also received 
a positive opinion from the Committee for Medicinal 
Products for Human Use, in Europe, and are submitting marketing applications around the world. 
We are engaging key external stakeholders 
including bilateral and multilateral organizations (such as the World Health Organization and UNAIDS), 
nongovernmental organizations, regulatory bodies, 
HIV/AIDS advocates and people at risk and living with HIV/AIDS, and other key opinion leaders in the field, 
to determine how to best facilitate responsible access 
to Selzentry
TM in developing world countries based on 
Selzentry’sTM current utility and approved indication.  
We plan to proactively communicate our access 
strategy for the developing world as this work nears 
completion.
Lyrica®
In June 2007, the FDA approved Lyrica® for the 
management of fibromyalgia, a common chronic and 
widespread pain condition. The approval represents  
a breakthrough for the more than six million Americans who previously had no FDA-approved treatment 
options. This is Lyrica’s
® fourth FDA-approved 
indication. It was initially approved for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral 
neuropathy and postherpetic neuralgia, and for adjunctive use in the treatment of epilepsy.
Eraxis®
Eraxis® treats candidemia, the most deadly of the 
common hospital-acquired bloodstream infections, 
which can spread quickly, especially for patients with 
weakened immune systems. Eraxis® is an important 
new treatment for the approximately 60,000 patients  
in the US who contract this dangerous infection  
each year.r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 we believe we have a responsibility to 
conduct and support research for diseases 
that affect the developing world and are 
expanding our efforts to help meet this global health challenge. As a single  
company, however, we are limited in our 
ability to solve such universal health problems and recognize that multisector 
solutions are needed. Today, public-private 
partnerships are essential to making progress on this front. expanding research for diseases  
of the developing w orld
Collaborating with the World Health 
Organization 
Our collaboration with the World Health Organization’s  Special Program for Research and Training in Tropical 
Diseases (WHO/TDR), announced in October 2006, 
is an unprecedented partnership for a public company.  We are opening our library of medicinal compounds— 
the world’s largest—to help search for new antiparasitic 
medicines against such deadly diseases of the developing world as malaria, leishmaniasis, African trypanosomiasis, 
onchocerciasis, schistosomiasis, and Chagas’ disease.  
We will also bring scientists from developing countries into  our laboratories for training in drug discovery techniques.  Improving Treatments for Malaria
Through our Zithromax®/chloroquine clinical trial program, 
Pfizer scientists are developing a potential malaria treatment 
based on our widely used antibiotic, Zithromax®. Dosed in 
combination with chloroquine, Zithromax® demonstrated 
positive results in the treatment of adults with malaria in Africa. Currently, clinical studies are ongoing at centers in 
South America, India and Africa.
Opening a New Front Against Infections
We expanded our commitment to fighting infectious diseases in 2007 by acquiring UK-based PowderMed Ltd, whose 
proprietary, DNA-based technology is designed to deliver a 
new generation of vaccines. 
This vaccine development program, with a needle-free 
delivery system, is at the forefront of a scientific effort to overhaul a vaccine manufacturing system that has remained largely unchanged for the last 50 years. While the research is 
at an early stage, this new DNA-based technology is quickly 
adaptable to changing strains of influenza. The pipeline also includes vaccines in phase I development for herpes simplex 
virus (HSV) as well as other viral diseases.
“ This collaboration is a step forward 
in expanding worldwide capacity in 
tropical disease research, because it 
enhances access to research tools for developing country researchers and 
expands access to large numbers of 
compounds for screening to identify new leads.”
Dr. rober T riDley 
DireCTor of WHo/TDrr&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS 22 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportBringing an r&d Pipeline Strategy to Life 
our broad and diverse pipeline of new medicines will help drive the development 
of new medicines for a wide variety of therapeutic areas over the next several 
years. w e determine our r&d priorities according to medical need, followed by 
breakthrough potential, obstacles and commercial opportunities. The depth of our mid-stage pipeline gives us confidence that we can generate a steady stream of 
Cardiovascular, Metabolic and Endocrine DiseaseOncology Neuroscience Infectious Diseases
There are seven main areas of focus—atherosclerosis, 
hypertension, obesity, diabetes, bone and muscle health, 
thrombosis and growth hormone deficiency. Pfizer is building 
on its traditional strengths in cardiovascular research and is 
expanding research in metabolic and endocrine diseases. 
Drug candidates in late-stage development include a potential new treatment for obesity now in Phase III studies. The number of oncology R&D projects at Pfizer has increased four-fold over the past five years. At the annual Association 
of Clinical Oncology meeting in June 2007, we presented 
52 abstracts on 10 different medicines. These presentations 
highlighted 212 clinical trials under way in oncology, the most 
in the industry. Late-stage development projects include Phase III trials against melanoma and pancreatic, breast, 
thyroid and lung cancers. This portfolio includes new drug targets in areas  
of critical medical need—Alzheimer’s disease, pain, cognition 
and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, depression and 
anxiety, and sleep disorders. Pfizer’s Lyrica
®, the company’s 
new medicine for neuropathic pain, was recently approved 
by the FDA for the treatment of fibromyalgia, which is 
characterized by chronic, widespread pain that affects tens of 
millions of people worldwide. We are targeting key bacterial agents and key viral diseases. 
Pfizer is breaking new ground in our approaches to the 
treatment of HIV/AIDS, especially with the recent FDA 
approval of SelzentryTM. We are also exploring a number of 
other R&D approaches to find new treatments for HIV/AIDS.
1 2 3 4r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 new medicines that will address significant unmet medical needs. w e now have 
more drug candidates, more clinical trials, and more research programs than ever 
before—a total of 242 programs spanning 11 therapeutic areas. our four major 
areas of concentration include:
Cardiovascular, Metabolic and Endocrine DiseaseOncology Neuroscience Infectious Diseases
There are seven main areas of focus—atherosclerosis, 
hypertension, obesity, diabetes, bone and muscle health, 
thrombosis and growth hormone deficiency. Pfizer is building 
on its traditional strengths in cardiovascular research and is 
expanding research in metabolic and endocrine diseases. 
Drug candidates in late-stage development include a potential new treatment for obesity now in Phase III studies. The number of oncology R&D projects at Pfizer has increased four-fold over the past five years. At the annual Association 
of Clinical Oncology meeting in June 2007, we presented 
52 abstracts on 10 different medicines. These presentations 
highlighted 212 clinical trials under way in oncology, the most 
in the industry. Late-stage development projects include Phase III trials against melanoma and pancreatic, breast, 
thyroid and lung cancers. This portfolio includes new drug targets in areas  
of critical medical need—Alzheimer’s disease, pain, cognition 
and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, depression and 
anxiety, and sleep disorders. Pfizer’s Lyrica
®, the company’s 
new medicine for neuropathic pain, was recently approved 
by the FDA for the treatment of fibromyalgia, which is 
characterized by chronic, widespread pain that affects tens of 
millions of people worldwide. We are targeting key bacterial agents and key viral diseases. 
Pfizer is breaking new ground in our approaches to the 
treatment of HIV/AIDS, especially with the recent FDA 
approval of SelzentryTM. We are also exploring a number of 
other R&D approaches to find new treatments for HIV/AIDS.
1 2 3 4r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 24Pfizer’s Eleven Therapeutic Areas
With aggressive targets, virtually across the board, we have 
important research programs underway in atherosclerosis, 
oncology, diabetes, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis, HIV/AIDS, 
schizophrenia, liver disease, and Alzheimer’s, among others. As a result, our portfolio of new molecular entities (potential 
new medicines as yet untested and unapproved) has almost 
tripled since the beginning of the decade.
We now expect that our Phase III portfolio (when 
compounds are tested in large-scale clinical trials) will grow dramatically over the next three years. Four new programs advanced into Phase III in late 2006 are:
•		Axitinib, a promising new treatment for thyroid cancer 
•		CP-945,598, to treat obesity and its complications
•		Sutent
® for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer
•				Pediatric studies of Zithromax®/chloroquine to treat 
malaria, the single greatest killer of children in Africa.Increasing Pipeline Transparency 
Various stakeholders have told us they would like a  
broader picture of our pipeline and its potential, as well as  
a transparent assessment of our opportunities and challenges. 
We are now posting information about our pipeline on  www.pfizer.com/pipeline—where doctors, patients, investors 
and the public can track our progress over time. With a 
pipeline that is 250 percent larger than it was just six years ago, the new website provides details on all major projects  
in all key disease areas.
GENITOURINARYGASTROINTESTINALNEUROSCIENCE
OPHTHALMOLOGY
DERMATOLOGYCARDIOVASCULAR,
METABOLIC & ENDOCRINE
ALLERGY &  
RESPIRATORY
PAINONCOLOGYINFECTIOUS 
DISEASES
INFLAMMATION
  DISCOVERY / DEVELOPMENT / ALLIANCE
  DEVELOPMENT / ALLIANCEr&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 what is a Clinical Trial?
Clinical trials are crucial to discovering 
and developing new medicines. This section 
describes what clinical trials are and how 
they work. A clinical trial is a research study performed with human volunteers 
to answer specific health questions and to 
prove the relative safety and effectiveness of a potential medicine. Patients in clinical 
trials are carefully selected by healthcare 
professionals/physicians and closely monitored to ensure their safety and the 
integrity	 of	the	results.	government	 agencies	
regulate all phases of clinical research up 
to the approval of a new drug. Carefully 
conducted clinical trials are the safest way 
to find new or improved treatments, advance medical knowledge, and improve clinical 
practice in many areas of medicine.What are the different phases  
of clinical trials?
Clinical trials are divided into the following phases: 
  Phase I trials are the first studies of a drug 
in human subjects. Phase I trials test the 
safety and tolerability of a prospective 
medicine, helping to determine which dosages are safe and well tolerated. The 
studies are typically in a small sample of 
study subjects, who are usually healthy volunteers, although for some types of 
drugs, Phase I trials may be conducted in 
patients who have the condition that the drug is intended to treat.1
  Phase II trials usually involve patients 
with the disease that the new medicine is designed to treat. The emphasis in Phase 
II is determining the effectiveness of the 
medicine against the disease; the most effective dose (that produces minimal side 
effects); and the most appropriate method 
of delivering the new medicine. 2
  Phase III trials are typically large-scale 
studies which can involve thousands of 
patients. Through large-scale testing, a 
research sponsor is able to develop a profile of the drug’s efficacy, advantages, 
and side effects. Phase III studies normally 
last several years and often involve comparison of the prospective new 
medicine with currently available therapies. 3
  Phase IV studies are conducted after a 
product is already approved for sale by a 
government regulatory body (FDA in the 
US). Phase IV studies provide additional information about the medicine, often 
including information about long-term risks, 
benefits, and optimal use (see page 54 for further details).4  Ensuring Ethical Clinical Trials 
Pfizer and its various stakeholders continually look for 
ways to improve the clinical trial process—to better 
assess a product’s benefit/risk profile, strengthen 
protections for clinical trial participants, and expand public disclosure of clinical trial results in all phases.
For scientific, humanitarian and regulatory reasons, 
we perform these trials around the world uniformly and with necessary rigor, to ensure the highest research standards, while demonstrating utmost respect for the 
health, well-being and safety of research participants, 
and the culture, laws and regulations of countries where we conduct our studies. Our Clinical Trial Disclosure 
Policy is posted on www.pfizer.com/research/
registration_disclosure_authorship.jsp.r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS 26 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportMaintaining Clinical Trial Standards in  
the Developing World
In recent years there has been an increase in clinical trials conducted in developing and emerging countries. While we 
still conduct most of our trials in North America and Europe, 
others are done in advanced countries in Asia and Latin America. Around 10 percent of study participants come from 
Eastern Europe and another 10 percent from Asia, excluding 
Japan. A very small percentage come from the Middle East and Africa.
There are several reasons for this changing trend. Some 
countries require local clinical trials before a medicine can be registered there, even if it has been approved by regulators 
elsewhere. There are also specific medical reasons, like 
targeting certain diseases according to global incidence and prevalence. 
We conduct clinical trials in accordance with local laws  
and regulations, and recognize international standards,  like the International Conference of Harmonization, Good 
Clinical Practices (GCP) Guidelines (www.ich.org/LOB/media/
MEDIA482.pdf) and the Declaration of Helsinki. We also  have the responsibility to ensure that GCPs are followed  
by contract research organizations we hire.Trovan: Facing Challenges in the  
Developing World 
Addressing Stakeholders Pharmaceutical companies face unique challenges when 
conducting drug trials for potentially life-saving medicines in 
countries with weak, ambiguous or nonexistent medical and regulatory infrastructures. In recent years, companies have 
been challenged legally and in the media regardless of their 
scientific success or failure, or the humanitarian nature of  their efforts. 
Pfizer is currently facing such a legal issue. The case 
concerns a clinical trial of Pfizer’s antibiotic, Trovan, and children suffering from meningitis during a severe meningitis 
epidemic in Kano, Nigeria in 1996. Eleven years later, in June 
2007, Kano and federal authorities filed civil and criminal lawsuits in Nigeria against Pfizer. 
One of the allegations is that Pfizer failed to obtain proper 
informed consent from the children’s families. As Pfizer stated in its response to this action, Pfizer acted in the best interest 
of the children and used the best medical knowledge available 
to treat patients. Before any child was admitted to the study, the entire process for conducting the trial was explained to 
each parent or guardian in their native language, and consent 
was obtained orally. The parents or guardians were allowed to remain with and see their children during the treatment. The 
study was conducted with the necessary approvals from the 
relevant government agencies and in a responsible and ethical way consistent with the company’s commitment to patient 
safety. Trovan proved safe and effective. The study’s survival 
rate for both Trovan and the comparative drug exceeded the survival rate of any other treatment being administered at the 
Infectious Disease Hospital in Kano.
Addressing the Epidemic 
Nigeria’s 1996 meningitis outbreak was the most serious 
meningitis epidemic ever recorded in the country. It took the lives of almost 12,000 people over six months, and 
significantly strained the country’s health system. Pfizer’s goal 
was to bring a life-saving and innovative form of antibiotic that could be used effectively in a meningitis epidemic. 
Trovan was not only demonstrated in pre-clinical studies to 
be effective at treating the meningitis pathogen, its oral form avoided the use of intravenous administration or intramuscular 
injections. 
At the time of the study, Trovan was in late-stage 
development and had been tested clinically in more than 5,000 patients in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. 
Pfizer was getting ready to begin a global pediatric meningitis clinical study when the 1996 epidemic broke out. This 
pediatric meningitis study was eventually conducted in 1998 
and the study concluded that Trovan raised no new safety concerns. Increasing Clinical Trial Transparency  
Ethical standards for clinical research are evolving 
and stakeholders have a growing interest in greater 
transparency. 
With the expansion of our clinical trials disclosure 
policy in January 2007, we now register every  Pfizer-sponsored clinical study in patients on the  
NIH-sponsored website www.clinicaltrials.gov .  
This includes Phase 1 trials and non-interventional 
studies with prospective data. For every trial Pfizer 
registers, we also disclose the results in the PhRMA results database (www.clinicalstudyresults.or g), 
including data for products that receive regulatory approval. As of August 8, 2007, Pfizer registered  842 studies on the NIH site and posted 554 studies  
on the PhRMA results site. This expanded policy builds 
on our previous clinical trials disclosure commitment, which was based on the January 2005 Joint Statement 
of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA).  
For more information, please see www.pfizer.com/
research/clinical_trials.jsp.27 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentSFor 15 years, our scientists had been 
working on a compound to dramatically 
improve the treatment of cardiovascular 
disease. The compound, torcetrapib, aimed to raise “good” cholesterol, and 
the research looked very promising.
Then, in December 2006, to the surprise 
of many, we immediately terminated all clinical trials for torcetrapib. With our 
focus on patient safety, we knew we 
had to stop the trial when the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), an 
independent body overseeing the drug’s 
morbidity and mortality study, alerted us about a statistical imbalance in mortality 
all-cause and cardiovascular events 
among trial participants.
The data was both surprising and 
disappointing. We had great hopes for the treatment and had already spent 
more than $1 billion dollars developing this medicine. Developing torcetrapib 
required innovation across all areas of 
Pfizer—from biology and chemistry to 
manufacturing.
When we decided to terminate the 
trial, our medical team immediately 
reached out to hundreds of clinical 
trial investigators to notify them of the decision, and we contacted other 
key audiences, including regulatory 
agencies around the world. We also were open and accessible in 
communicating with the media and 
financial communities, as well as with our employees.
The one silver lining in all of this was 
the overall public reaction to our news. 
While our stock lost approximately  
10 percent of its value by the end of that first day, we received praise 
for our swift response from some of 
our harshest media critics. As one newspaper described it, the way we handled the crisis helped to “restore our faith in the integrity of corporations that 
play such a big role in safeguarding our 
health and safety.” The stock price later recovered. 
The torcetrapib story is a reminder 
of the profound risks associated with 
biomedical R&D. The fact is, 75 percent of all biomedical research ends in 
failure, so the average cost to discover 
and develop one approved medicine has increased to more than $800 
million, according to the Tufts Center for 
the Study of Drug Development. 
As Pfizer’s head of global R&D said,  
“We do science to help cure the 
world’s diseases, and when it works, 
it’s fantastic. But no project advances without a hitch and nothing we do is 
truly unsuccessful…this is one of the 
most important projects we’ve ever worked on and we will learn from this.”Torcetrapib: A Case Study in Responsible Actions 
QUICK DECISION 
MAKING 
TRANSPARENCY
 
COST OF 
R&D 
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTR&D: finDing cuRes anD tReatments 28 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report
When people think of human embryonic 
stem cells, they don’t often imagine the 
power of these cells in drug discovery.
For more than a decade, Pfizer has been using animal or adult 
stem cells in its laboratories to help screen new compounds 
and identify safer and more effective medicines.
With compelling evidence from this research, Pfizer has 
begun to explore accessing drug development technology from leading academic, biotechnology or pharmaceutical 
partners around the world, who also have experience with currently-available, human embryonic stem cell lines that 
meet the highest ethical standards set by leading scientific 
authorities. This Pfizer Stem Cell Policy guides the company’s research activities and its exploration of new external 
partnerships. The policy summary follows:
•		Pfizer	recognizes	the	enormous	potential	of	stem	 
cell research. Stem cells are important tools for modern biomedical research, including Pfizer’s search for 
innovative new medicines.
•		Pfizer	has	made	significant	investments	in	animal	 
stem cells and in human adult hematopoietic (somatic) 
stem cells. The company will continue to invest in  
these stem cell technologies.
•		Pfizer	recognizes	that	human	embryonic	stem	cells	may	
provide even greater potential due to their increased ability 
for self-renewal and capacity to form a wide variety of  cells and tissues.Pfizer’s stem cell Research Policy
•		Pfizer	acknowledges	the	sensitive	issues	raised	by	 
this research, and we support proper ethical safeguards 
that	take	into	account	both	the	moral	issues	and	public	
sensitivities. 
•		Pfizer	will	only	engage	in	stem	cell	research	projects	 
that meet the highest ethical standards set by leading 
scientific authorities around the world, including  the Guidelines developed by the National Academy  
of Sciences in the USA.
•	 Pfizer	strongly	opposes	any	efforts	to	clone	human	beings.
  A human stem cell culture.r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Pursuing a Humane Approach  
to Animals in research
we understand our stakeholders’ concerns 
about the use of animals in research testing. 
Based on our Animal w elfare policy, we 
proactively look for alternatives that reduce, 
replace or refine our work with animals.  
in order to adopt new nonanimal test 
methods, we engage in and lead cross-industry efforts aimed at developing new 
testing and information systems that may 
help accurately predict medical outcomes and reduce the use of animals in testing. 
Currently and for the foreseeable future, it is only through the combination of animal-based research and alternatives that 
we can understand the fundamental biology of the diseases 
we are trying to treat, discover new medicines and assess their safety. 
While new technologies can reduce our use of animals, 
most are applicable only for safety evaluations, which are the smaller portion of our animal use. The majority of the 
animals utilized in testing are used to understand basic 
causes of disease and to test the efficacy of new candidate compounds for medicines. A range of studies measure how a 
new medicine is absorbed and how the body distributes and 
breaks it down. Exploratory studies of this kind can be done in tissues, but the pivotal studies have to be done in whole 
animals before we can conduct them in humans. 
We work through pharmaceutical trade organizations 
and relevant scientific boards, and directly with global regulatory authorities, to increase the common understanding 
and acceptance of appropriate alternative methods. One example of this is our strategic investment in the work 
of the International Life Sciences Institutes/Health and 
Environmental Sciences Institute. We are also members of the In Vitro Testing Industrial Platform (IVTIP).
Pfizer cannot eliminate our use of animals in research at 
this time. But we can make sure that the tests we need to carry out—some of which are required for regulatory purposes 
and others because it’s the only way to get the necessary 
medical answers—are done to the very highest ethical standards of animal welfare.Improving Animal Health
Pfizer Animal Health (PAH) is dedicated to improving the safety, quality and productivity of the food supply and helping 
pets live longer, healthier lives through innovation in products 
for livestock and companion animals. In 2006, PAH spent $270 million on research to improve the health and welfare 
of animals. One recent Pfizer launch, Improvac—a novel 
alternative to surgical castration of boars—is a good example. The animal welfare community is applauding this product 
for its humane approach to a necessary animal husbandry 
practice. 
To advance canine cancer research, PAH announced that 
it will donate $1.1 million over two years to help establish a national canine tumor tissue bank. The Pfizer Canine Tumor Biospecimen Bank will be housed at the National Cancer 
Institute (NCI) in Bethesda, Maryland, and will be managed 
by the Morris Animal Foundation (MAF)—the world’s largest charitable nonprofit organization funding research to 
protect, treat and cure animals worldwide. With this tissue 
bank, veterinary and medical investigators can explore the mechanisms of cancer, evaluate promising new drug 
candidates and possibly develop a better understanding of 
the relationship between human and animal cancers.   Animal Welfare Policy  
For as long as it’s necessary to use animals in the 
discovery, development and evaluation of new 
medicines, we are committed to humane treatment. 
Parties conducting animal-based research on behalf  of Pfizer must adhere to our standards. We embrace  
the three principles known as the 3Rs of animal 
research first proposed in 1959 by Russell and Burch.
Replacement of animal experiments with non-animal 
experiments, such as mathematical models, computer 
simulations, and in vitro biological systems wherever 
appropriate; and where animals must be used: 
Reduction of the numbers of animals used in each 
study, and of the number of studies involving animals, to 
the absolute minimum necessary to obtain valid results 
and achieve our research objectives; and
Refinement of procedures involving animals to minimize 
the potential for pain and distress.
For more information, please see www.pfizer.com/
responsibility/laboratory_animal_care.jsp.r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS 30 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportexpanding Scientific 
Collaborations and Partnerships
we are increasingly open to new and 
different approaches to maximize the 
potential of our r&d activities—in 
the form of scientific alliances and partnerships with academia, public research 
institutions, foundations, nongovernmental 
organizations, biotechnology companies  and governments.
effective partnerships not only help 
us achieve scientific advances, but they also help us streamline the complex and 
expensive r&d process. Pfizer’s alliance 
portfolio is large but focused, involving partners with expertise that spans the 
entire process of discovering, developing and 
delivering new medicines for patients  in need.
  Collaborating with The Scripps  
Research Institute  
In December 2006, we announced a five-year research collaboration with The Scripps Research Institute. 
Scientists from Pfizer and Scripps will work together to 
study and evaluate possible therapeutic approaches for 
such uncured diseases as cancer, diabetes and mental 
illness. The collaboration will involve the development of new tests to rapidly validate approaches as possible 
novel treatment options.The FDA’s “Critical Path” Initiative 
In 2004 the US FDA launched Critical Path, a 
cooperative initiative aimed at improving the scientific 
and regulatory processes that can turn new science 
into better medical treatments. Since its inception, Pfizer has been an active supporter of this initiative. 
In 2005, with extensive input from public and private 
stakeholders including Pfizer, the FDA published a Critical Path Opportunities List, highlighting such areas 
as the qualification of better evaluation tools and the 
development of streamlined clinical trial methods. The initiative has stimulated the formation of public-private 
partnerships such as The Biomarkers Consortium. 
The Biomarkers Consortium 
In October 2006, the Foundation for the National 
Institutes of Health (FNIH), the FDA, the NIH, and 
the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of 
America (PhRMA), with active participation from Pfizer, launched The Biomarkers Consortium, a public-private 
research partnership. The Biomarkers Consortium 
sponsors projects to discover, develop and qualify new biological markers—molecular or biological indicators 
that help identify risk for disease, make a diagnosis or 
assess drug safety—to support new drug development, preventive medicine and medical diagnostics. Results 
from Consortium projects will be broadly available to 
researchers worldwide. r&D:	finDing	cUreS	 anD	treatmentS Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 aWarDs anD reCogniTion
Two Pfizer scientists, along with a non-Pfizer 
scientist, were presented in March 2007  
with the PhRMA Discoverers Award. These 
three scientists are responsible for the discovery of Zyvox
®, the first member of an 
entirely new class of antibacterial agents to 
reach the market in the 35 years prior to its 
approval in 2000.
A Pfizer scientist was appointed to the US 
National Human Genome Advisory Council  
in 2006.
In 2006, Pfizer La Jolla was presented with  
the Most Innovative Product Award for Sutent® 
by CONNECT, a nonprofit group focusing  on technology growth.
Pfizer India won the 2006 Pharma Excellence 
Award for Exubera
® in the “Innovative 
Products of the Year” category.Genetic Association Information Network (GAIN) 
Launched in 2006, GAIN is a public-private partnership 
involving the Foundation for the National Institutes of 
Health (FNIH), the NIH and Pfizer. GAIN is designed to 
unravel the genetic causes of serious illnesses such as Alzheimer’s disease, diabetes, heart disease, stroke 
and osteoporosis, and make the information publicly 
available to researchers worldwide. By comparing the genetic makeup of people with these diseases with that 
of people who are healthy, the program hopes to speed 
up the development of new methods of prevention, diagnosis and treatment. Pfizer led the private sector by 
committing scientific and financial support, including an 
initial $5 million to set up GAIN’s management structure, plus approximately $15 million in genotyping capacity to 
study five common diseases.
Incubating Science Innovation  
Adopting a long-held practice that has yielded 
innovative new medicines for biotech companies, we 
recently launched the mainstream pharmaceutical 
industry’s first “incubator” at our La Jolla, California, laboratory. Pfizer provides funding and laboratory space in support of early-stage research being conducted by 
academics and small biotech start-ups, which in turn 
brings external innovation and cutting-edge ideas closer to Pfizer. Through the “incubator,” scientists can focus 
on science rather than worrying about funding and the 
complex logistics involved in running a small company. Pfizer and innovators begin with a pre-agreed equity 
share and when the research plan is complete, we 
will have an option to acquire exclusive rights at a fair price. If we don’t purchase the rights, the start-up may 
continue as an independent business.32 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportinvesting
iN H eALTH
improving access to medicine and strengthening  
healthcare systems for underserved people around the 
world are among the standards by which our success  
as a pharmaceutical company is measured.
To that end, we are working on new solutions with  
our partners. w e are investing in effective and  
sustainable healthcare delivery resources, and working 
with national governments, international agencies,  
nongovernmental organizations, multilateral  
organizations, academic institutions and others to help 
people get the medicines and services they need.inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 inveSting	in	health 34 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report2006/2007 key aCT ions
Launched “Mobilize Against Malaria” 
with NGO partners and three African 
governments to help in malaria 
treatment. 
 Launched ConnectHIV to support 
20 community-based AIDS service 
organizations working to stop the 
spread of HIV/AIDS in the US. 
Joined a new coalition created by  
The Brookings Institution to increase 
the number of US volunteers involved  in international service.
implementing a Holistic Approach  
to Healthcare delivery
Making medicines accessible around the world 
requires a commitment on many fronts: engaging and educating providers and patients about diagnosis and treatment, building healthcare capacity, delivering the medicines where they need to be and when they need to be there, and 
partnering effectively with organizations treating 
patients on the ground. Launched Global Health Partnerships 
to support innovative public health 
programs in the areas of oncology and 
tobacco dependence.
 Developed disease management 
programs in the US, Italy and the UK.inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 
Treat, Teach, Build, Serve
To invest in effective and sustainable 
delivery of healthcare resources and 
expertise to underserved people around  
the world, Pfizer coordinates its efforts under four major areas of support. 
we define them as:
•		Trea T improving access to medicines 
and healthcare services.
•		Teach increasing patient education  
and health worker training on health 
issues and prevention. 
•		Build w orking to strengthen 
healthcare organizations and expand 
their ability to serve their patients and 
communities better. 
•		Serve Advocating for improved 
healthcare for the underserved and 
sharing best practices to improve healthcare delivery to this population. 
This and the next two pages include 
examples of programs that contribute in  
all four areas.Mobilize Against Malaria
Malaria is Africa’s leading cause of child mortality. 
We have made a commitment to help close critical 
treatment gaps in malaria for patients in Senegal,  
Ghana and Kenya. This effort, through the Clinton Global Initiative (www.clintonglobalinitiative.or g), 
includes engaging in partnerships with governments, NGOs and leading local and international organizations to help develop and strengthen access to malaria 
treatment, provider training and patient education 
programs.
In partnership with Pfizer’s global evaluation team 
from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, each pilot intervention has been designed to reduce the rate of malaria morbidity and mortality 
by improving malaria symptom recognition, treatment 
and referral through: 1) targeted training activities to improve the quality of treatment and 2) complementary 
community mobilization campaigns to better support 
patients and strengthen the demand for quality care. Specifically, each program works to ensure pregnant 
women and children under five are seeking treatment 
appropriately within 24 hours. 
Pfizer is partnering with leading NGOs and local 
evaluation teams to develop robust and measurable programs that will advance malaria-control efforts and that have the potential to be replicated and scaled-up 
by collaborating institutions.
The Pfizer Mobilize Against Malaria initiative 
represents the four key components of our investment efforts in the following ways: 
•			TREAT Increase the number of patients receiving 
prompt and appropriate malaria treatment.
•			TEACH Train providers and healthcare workers to 
improve patient diagnosis, treatment and referral.
•			BUILD Enhance the effectiveness of the informal 
and public sectors in the delivery of appropriate 
treatment for malaria.
•			SERVE Partner with the London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine to evaluate the effectiveness 
of malaria interventions and share knowledge and 
learnings with the Ministries of Health and other 
stakeholders with the resources to expand best practices throughout the targeted countries.inveSting	in	health 36 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report
International Trachoma Initiative 
This public-private partnership, which Pfizer helped 
found and continues to support, is dedicated to 
eliminating trachoma, the world’s leading cause of 
preventable blindness, through health worker training, patient education and donations of the Pfizer antibiotic, 
Zithromax
® (azithromycin) .
The ITI has given 54 million treatments of Zithromax®  
to trachoma patients in 13 countries as part of WHO’s SAFE strategy (Surgery, Antibiotics, Face-Washing and 
Environmental Improvement). Since 1998 the program has supported the training of thousands of healthcare 
workers around the world who, in turn, have completed 
more than 277,000 surgeries to treat advanced cases of trachoma.
For example, in Niger, the collaboration between the 
Ministry of Health and ITI has reduced the prevalence of trachoma from over 60 percent to 7 percent in some 
regions of Niger. 
In 2006, after six years of work, Morocco became 
the first country to complete the campaign for trachoma control and is working toward WHO certification that 
blinding trachoma has been eliminated as a public health problem.
•				TREAT Expand trachoma treatment to millions of 
patients in Africa by providing, at no cost, millions of 
treatments of the antibiotic Zithromax
® to patients in 
13 countries. 
•				TEACH Train thousands of healthcare workers 
to communicate prevention techniques, treat the 
disease and perform needed surgeries.
•				BUILD Support and enhance the public sector 
infrastructure so treatment is possible; partner with 
the WHO to provide technical training.
•				SERVE Advocate for improved funding for neglected 
diseases like trachoma and encourage other funders 
to offer support and resources.ConnectHIV 
The Pfizer Foundation is providing $7.5 million in 
grants, technical assistance and networking resources 
over three years (2007-2010) to 20 mid-sized AIDS 
service organizations (ASOs) in the 10 states of the US with the highest number of new AIDS cases. 
ConnectHIV programs will serve communities that are 
disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS.
 
The program aims to prevent new infections to 
high-risk populations and delay disease progression 
for those already infected by supporting ASOs that 
take a comprehensive approach to prevention, access to care, and treatment. An independent committee of 
internal and external HIV/AIDS experts reviewed over 
115 applicants to choose the 20 ASOs that received support. Criteria included a commitment to the HIV/
AIDS prevention and care continuum, the ability to reach 
underserved, multicultural communities, evaluation expertise, and the potential for program replication. 
•				TREAT Help improve treatment education and 
increase adherence to treatment protocols for those 
who are infected.
•				TEACH Support ASOs that take a comprehensive 
approach to prevention practices and access to care, 
and develop a collaborative network of ASOs that 
share replicable program models and best practices. 
•				BUILD Support and enhance the capabilities of 
ASOs through technical assistance and professional 
training so they can reach as many underserved people as possible.
•				SERVE Partner with the Academy for Educational 
Development and Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School 
of Public Health—leaders in the HIV community— 
to measure the impact of ConnectHIV and share lessons learned and best practices with other 
organizations addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic.inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 
Alliance for a Healthy Border
On both sides of the United States-Mexico border, the 
Hispanic population is struggling with disproportionately 
high rates of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. In 
most of the US, Hispanics are almost twice as likely as non-Hispanic whites to suffer from diabetes, and 
heart disease accounts for almost 30 percent of overall 
deaths among this population. These rates are even worse along the border.
In an effort to slow these disturbing trends, Pfizer 
has joined US community health centers, Mexican community organizations and the University of Texas-
Pan American to create the Alliance for a Healthy 
Border. The Alliance has two ambitious goals: to prevent these diseases from striking in the first place and to 
stop their progression among people already affected 
by them. We are providing grants to community health centers in four US border states, as well as community 
organizations in Mexico, to promote best practices in 
prevention and disease management. 
•				TREAT Provide grants to community health centers 
that provide treatment to patients who otherwise 
might not receive it. 
•				TEACH Provide prevention education and disease 
management techniques to Hispanic populations 
that suffer disproportionately from diabetes and cardiovascular disease. 
•				BUILD Strengthen the capabilities of community 
health centers through technical assistance 
and training. 
•				SERVE Partner with the University of Texas-
Pan American to measure the impact of program 
interventions; share lessons learned and best practices with other organizations committed  
to improving Hispanic health.  Pfizer Global Health Fellow Elizabeth Gesierich with Irene Njoroge, an 
administrator at the Amurt HIV/AIDS Orphans Day Care Centre in Nairobi, Kenya.
  Pfizer Global Health Fellow Dr. Ponni Subbiah trained new physicians at 
Mulago Hospital in Kampala, Uganda, with Health Volunteers Overseas.
inveSting	in	health 38 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report
Additional Programs  
Around the w orld
we support a range of sustainable healthcare 
delivery resources in countries where we 
operate to help underserved people get the 
care and treatments they need. Below is a sample of these programs. More information 
may be found on the Pfizer country-specific 
websites on www.pfizer.com. 
Trea T
Improving access to medicines and  healthcare services
inTerna Tional  
Diflucan® Partnership Program
Diflucan® (fluconazole), a Pfizer medicine that treats 
two fungal opportunistic infections associated with 
AIDS, is provided free of charge to governmental and 
nongovernmental organizations in developing countries.
•		The	program	has	donated	approximately	$570	million	
in medicine to organizations that treat HIV-positive 
patients with life-threatening fungal infections.  
The program is active in 59 countries hardest hit by HIV/AIDS. 
•		Since	2000,	the	Diflucan
® Partnership Program 
supported the training of 20,000 health professionals 
in the diagnosis and treatment of fungal opportunistic 
infections.inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Mexico 
In the battle against Type II 
diabetes, Pfizer has been working 
over the last two years with the 
Mexican Diabetes Association in Mexico City and Jalisco to 
educate young patients and their 
parents on the importance of making the necessary changes in their daily routines. This partnership—
with the help of nutritionists, treatment experts, 
psychologists and support groups—has developed  a plan that gives the members of low-income families 
all the tools and information they need to treat diabetes 
as an integral disease, including a personalized nutrition plan and follow-up monitoring. In addition to support 
groups for children and parents, a special camp on 
diabetes education has also been organized for children 
and teenagers. In all, 140 families have learned to deal 
with diabetes, control glucose levels, become more independent, and have a positive attitude. 
Hungary 
The death of every second 
man in Hungary is caused by 
cardiovascular diseases. Only 
60 percent of Hungarian men reach the age of 65. That’s why 
Pfizer joined with the Hungarian 
Society of Hypertension and a national health program 
on treating and preventing cardiovascular disease 
to combat the problem. Together they developed 
a program that encourages the population to take part in screenings. By using a simple, non-invasive 
measurement with an arteriograph, which measures 
arterial stiffness, Pfizer is helping to increase awareness about the early phase of athero- and arteriosclerosis 
and playing a role in reducing cardiovascular morbidity 
and mortality. As part of our support, we placed  21 arteriograph machines in national or regional health 
centers around the country. The collected experience, 
data, information, and results of the working groups will be published in national specialist journals.
Italy 
Project Leonardo is a care 
management program developed 
by a public-private partnership 
between Italy’s Puglia regional government and Pfizer Italy. The program takes a proactive 
approach to identifying and treating patients with such 
chronic diseases as diabetes, congestive heart failure, and other cardiovascular conditions—as well as patients 
with risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Pfizer 
provides detailed operational, technical and clinical consultation. This patient-centered program is designed 
to reduce cardiovascular risk by modifying patient 
lifestyles, improve continuity of care and appropriate 
access to needed services, and implement consistent 
care guidelines for the program staff and physicians involved in the project.
uniTeD sT aTes 
Pfizer Helpful Answers 
In the United States, the Pfizer Helpful Answers family 
of patient assistance programs helps Americans without 
prescription drug coverage save on many Pfizer medicines, no matter their age or income. Patients with limited income may qualify to get their Pfizer medicines 
for free. In the past five years Pfizer has helped over 
five million patients receive nearly 50 million Pfizer prescriptions for free or at a savings. 
Pfizer is also a member of the Partnership for 
Prescription Assistance (PPA)—a national effort sponsored by America’s pharmaceutical research 
companies that helps low-income, uninsured and 
underinsured individuals access prescription medicines. The PPA connects patients in need to 
more than 475 public and private patient-assistance 
programs, including more than 180 programs offered by pharmaceutical companies. As of its second 
anniversary in April 2007, the PPA has helped more 
than 3.6 million patients nationwide find programs that provide more than 2,500 prescription medicines 
for free or nearly free. The PPA also offers a service 
to inform patients about free healthcare clinics in their communities and has connected more than 135,000 
patients with these clinics.inveSting	in	health 40 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportTeaCH
Increasing patient education and health worker training on health issues and prevention 
inTerna Tional  
Global Health Partnerships: Advancing 
Cancer and Tobacco Control
Pfizer and the Pfizer Foundation are launching a new global initiative to support innovative public health 
partnerships in the areas of oncology and tobacco 
independence. With cancer deaths leading all others in most developed countries, and more than one billion 
smokers in the world today, there is an urgent need for 
innovative strategies to address these public health crises. The goal of the initiative is to fund programs with 
measurable impact that will serve as global models in 
improving cancer-related health outcomes, supporting cancer control efforts, and/or encouraging tobacco 
independence.
An example of one such partnership is in Latin 
America, where program partners in Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Argentina, Costa Rica and Venezuela will 
receive funds and technical assistance from the American Cancer Society for up to three years, starting 
in 2007, to support expanded detection and screening 
services for underserved patients and build cancer patient advocacy capacity. 
Argentina 
     “A Tiempo,” launched in 
November 2006 at the Argentine 
Congress of Clinical Oncology, 
is an awareness campaign designed to inform people about 
preventable oncological risk factors and the importance 
of early detection. Pfizer’s objective is to encourage people to get periodical medical examinations, and  
to encourage people to make lifestyle changes— quit smoking and eat healthier foods—to stop behaviors that may trigger the disease.
This campaign is being carried out in partnership 
with Lalcec (Argentine League Against Cancer), a nongovernmental organization that has been actively 
working on behalf of cancer patients for almost 85 years 
in Argentina. 
Southern United States
In the Southern United States, we have responded to 
an alarming trend in the rates of HIV/AIDS infections 
by partnering with community-based organizations 
in the region to help prevent the spread of HIV/AIDs through our Southern HIV/AIDS Prevention Initiative. 
The Pfizer Foundation and Pfizer committed a total of $6 million over three years, beginning in 2004, to support a network of more than 50 innovative HIV/AIDS 
prevention programs across nine Southern states. By 
providing training for health workers, educators and volunteers, these programs strengthened the capacity 
of community-based organizations to reach and serve 
their communities.
After three years of grants and intensive capacity- 
building support, the majority of grantees demonstrated stronger service delivery, improved organizational 
capacity, and expanded networks with local and 
regional AIDS service organizations. In addition, the social impact of the initiative has been significant:
•		More	than	1,000	individuals	were	trained	as	 
a peer educator or mentor, 
•		3,000	individuals	were	provided	with	testing	and/or	
counseling, 
•		More	than	11,000	referrals	were	made	to	testing,	
counseling and healthcare services, and
•		More	than	50,000	community	members	were	
reached with prevention materials.
Austria 
A nationwide mobile information 
campaign called the “Memory 
Bus” began in 2003. With physicians, psychotherapists and other mental health experts on 
board, the bus stops in 24 cities 
all over Austria every year, offering help and information on the topic of memory weakness, with a focus on 
educating the population about the importance of early 
diagnosis of dementia. The bus enables visitors to speak candidly and anonymously with a doctor and gain 
knowledge about this sensitive subject. The Memory 
Bus has become one of Austria’s most popular disease awareness campaigns.
inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Brazil 
TEAR Project is an initiative 
aimed at promoting psycho-
social rehabilitation of mentally 
disabled individuals and strengthening their relationship 
network through work. The 
partnership between Pfizer, Guarulhos City Hall and the Cornelia Vlieg Association strives to directly benefit 
patients by helping them redeem their self-esteem, 
encourage their inclusion in society, and generate income for their families, since they are often adults in 
low-income jobs. Backed by a team of psychiatrists, 
psychologists, social workers, occupational therapists, instructors in industrial trades, and nurse practitioners, 
the program offers seven different workshops: print 
shop, paper recycling, stained glass, mosaic work, carpentry, candle craftsmanship, and weaving. 
Funds raised from selling craft objects made in these 
workshops are used to generate income for the project participants and to help sustain the initiative. 
Ireland 
Childhood obesity is an 
epidemic in Ireland, as it is in 
other developed countries. 
“Way2Go, For a Healthier You” is a national public health 
information program designed to 
help families make healthier choices for their children. The focus of this program is on public meetings for 
parents, where strategies on how to address childhood 
obesity are discussed. Areas covered include nutrition, communication, physical activity and psychological 
factors. Another element is an education program  
for the schools. Way2Go materials are now in all  747 secondary schools nationwide and are being  
used with students age 11-15. Approximately  
224,000 students have an opportunity to be exposed to the program through health, home economics  
and/or physical education classes.
India 
Pfizer’s public breast cancer 
awareness initiative in India 
was led by eminent oncologists. 
The initiative included group discussions and training of 
female general practitioners and 
gynecologists to later help educate female patients about prevention, detection and early diagnosis. Also 
arranged were awareness sessions run by oncologists 
for corporations that have a large population of female employees. Key goals included training gynecologists 
for early detection, increasing referrals to oncologists, 
and informing patients about the importance of early screening.
Germany 
As in many developed countries, 
dementia is an emerging 
challenge for the German 
healthcare and long-term care system. To offer solutions for 
future health challenges, Pfizer 
Germany and co-promotion partner Eisai developed and initiated a care management project together with 
Germany’s largest statutory health insurance company 
AOK. The focus of the project, which partners with stakeholders, is to improve the early diagnosis of 
Alzheimer’s, delay the reduction of cognitive skills and 
entry into nursing home care, and reduce the cost of care. IDA was launched in July 2005 and in January 
2007 the recruitment of physicians and patients was 
completed. Now 129 physicians in the region of middle Franconia (part of Bavaria) are contributing with 390 
patients for the project. The care management project 
is based on a broad perspective to evaluate real-life quality of care, complement drug treatment with other 
treatment approaches, and integrate the efforts of 
caregiving relatives.
inveSting	in	health 42 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportSweden 
Pfizer Sweden, in cooperation 
with 22 ophthalmologists,  
developed an education program in 2006 for general practitioners and opticians. The objective 
was to help them make better 
referrals to eye clinics, with a focus on the most common eye diseases— glaucoma, age-related macular 
degeneration, dry eyes and diabetic retinopathy .  
The goal: “The right patient, at the right time, with  
the right level of care.” In the program’s first year,  
36 meetings were held with more than 500 attendees, who said the program was very helpful and would help improve referrals. Additional proof of its initial success 
was that 90 percent of participating ophthalmologists 
signed up for another year.
Canada
With a $1.5 million investment 
from Pfizer Canada, a public-
private partnership launched 
a primary care program in 2006 to reduce the high rate 
of cardiovascular disease in 
Nova Scotia. Called ANCHOR (A Novel Approach to Cardiovascular Health by Optimizing Risk Management), 
the program assists family physicians in two practice 
centers to help patients learn about their CV risk factors. The goal is to reduce cardiovascular risk by improving 
the management of care within these primary care 
practices and by empowering participants to develop healthy behaviors and adhere to medical therapy. 
Ultimately, the partnership hopes to build innovative 
models for cardiovascular and primary healthcare in the region, since Atlantic Canadians have the highest risk 
of dying of heart disease, in the nation. As ANCHOR’s 
sole sponsor, Pfizer has made a three-year commitment through the QE II Health Sciences Centre Foundation.
Spain
The Pfizer Spain Foundation 
created a school-based obesity 
program to promote and spread 
health habits for school children. The program is focused on diet, 
exercise and obesity prevention 
and helps to reach 10 to 12-year-old children with a message that prevention and healthy lifestyles begin in 
childhood. The program was developed in partnership 
with the Health and Education Regional Ministries from Madrid and Valencia and trains elderly people 
(above age 60) as program instructors to provide 
educational materials and promote discussions with the children. In the past year this program has reached 
almost 40,000 children in more than 1,700 classrooms 
and trained 45 instructors. 
Indonesia
Following the devastating 
tsunami in 2004, the Pfizer 
Foundation donated $150,000 to 
help train five psychiatrists from Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital 
in Jakarta to become trainers in 
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), a technique used to treat patients with post-traumatic stress disorder 
(PTSD). Pfizer Indonesia was heavily involved in the selection of the recipients. The training was conducted in October 2005 at the University of Pennsylvania. Pfizer 
Indonesia assisted the psychiatrists in the socialization 
of CBT as a way to treat PTSD at the National Congress of Psychiatry (Batam, November 2006). Pfizer Indonesia 
also arranged a media briefing on PTSD, conducted in 
March 2007, which generated coverage in 19 outlets nationwide. The second part of the program, currently 
underway, includes the development of a national 
mental trauma center, since Indonesia is prone to natural disasters.
inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 builD
Working to strengthen healthcare organizations and expand their ability to serve  
their patients and communities better
uganDa  
Infectious Diseases Institute 
Pfizer partners with the Academic Alliance Foundation 
(AAF), Makerere University, the Infectious Diseases 
Society of America, and other organizations to support 
training, treatment and research activities of the Infectious Diseases Institute (IDI) in Kampala, Uganda. 
The AAF established IDI as a world-class research, 
training, prevention, care, and treatment facility to address HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases. As an 
independent Ugandan NGO within Makerere University, 
IDI is making significant contributions to infectious diseases research and training, and establishing 
innovative approaches to healthcare capacity building 
and strengthening academic medical institutions. 
•		Since	2004,	the	IDI	has	trained	more	than	1,400	
healthcare providers from 26 African countries. 
•		The	institute	currently	provides	prevention,	care	and	
treatment to approximately 10,000 patients annually.
•	 IDI is partnering with: Exxon Mobil to expand  
training programs; BD to establish an excellence- 
in-laboratory-training program; and Gilead Sciences  
to support a new generation of African clinical scholars and infectious disease fellows.inTerna Tional  
Global Health Fellows
Pfizer Global Health Fellows are colleagues called 
upon to apply their professional skills to help improve 
access to healthcare in local communities throughout 
the developing world. The program was launched in 2003 and continues to help meet the need for stronger 
health systems and infrastructure that address pressing 
challenges such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, and other devastating diseases. 
Implemented in partnership with nongovernmental 
and multilateral organizations, Global Health Fellow assignments are designed and implemented according 
to local needs. The fellowships last for a period of 
three to six months, allowing Fellows time to integrate into the local community and host organization and 
make genuine contributions. During their assignments, 
colleagues train and support their local counterparts, transferring skills so that the contributions they make 
are sustainable over time.
As of August 2007, 128 Fellows have worked with 
26 nongovernmental organizations in 31 countries to deliver healthcare and health system support to those 
most in need. Philippines
Pfizer and the Philippine 
Association of Diabetes 
Educators teamed up to 
create the Health-Promoting, Diabetes-Preventing Schools 
Program. This program aims to 
educate the community about diabetes prevention and management. Through comprehensive research-based 
and sustainable information dissemination campaigns, 
the school administrators, teachers, parents and school children are given information about practical ways to 
prevent diabetes and promote healthy lifestyles.
Japan
Pfizer holds a workshop each 
year for voluntary healthcare 
organizations to discuss 
healthcare issues including awareness, communications 
and improvements for patients, 
families and healthcare professionals. The two-day workshop is in its seventh year and involves participants 
from more than 50 voluntary healthcare organizations. 
Activities underway include a study of diagnosis notes, an education book for medical students, and a focus on 
team-based healthcare. 
inveSting	in	health 44 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report  Taking Healthcare on the Road
slovenia For those citizens of Slovenia who do not 
live near a health center, Pfizer has teamed up with the 
Slovenian Heart Foundation and the Slovenian Diabetics 
Association to launch the Cardiomobile, a specially converted camper van dedicated to reducing cardiovascular 
disease. The van offers free lectures, an exhibition on 
cardiovascular disease risk factors, and educational material. Visitors have the chance to check their blood 
pressure and their levels of blood fats and blood sugar, and 
even have a free consultation with doctors. A number of celebrities—musicians, politicians and media personalities—
have also served as health ambassadors by raising 
awareness about heart disease and heart-healthy living.malaysia An initiative endorsed by Malaysia’s Ministry 
of Health, the Care-A-Van provides free health screenings 
and health education throughout the country to improve the 
standard of health among the population, especially the less privileged in rural and semi-urban communities. The goal is 
to increase awareness about the importance of prevention. 
Since its launch in 1999, the Care-A-Van has visited more than 186 locations and screened more than 80,000 patients 
nationwide.
  WaterAid and Pfizer Global Health Fellows
The international NGO WaterAid helps the world’s poorest 
people gain access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene 
education—basic human rights that are the first, essential 
steps in overcoming poverty. In the last few years, several Pfizer Global Health Fellows—experts drawn from Pfizer’s 
employee population—have contributed their professional 
talents, working on key WaterAid projects for six months  at a time.
While the skills of each Fellow have varied greatly, 
their contributions continue to be highly valued—from an IT manager who converted 
one WaterAid country office into a modern 
IT environment, to a senior market manager who designed new sanitation systems and wrote grant proposals for the World 
Bank. Their perspective and energy not 
only encouraged new behaviors, but also motivated the local communities to protect and maintain their new water 
and sanitation facilities.
Juanita Trusty, a Pfizer Director for Human Resources 
based in Memphis, worked for WaterAid in Abuja, Nigeria from February to July 2006. Juanita helped the local team 
to develop a Performance Management Process, a Change Management Plan, tools and resources to assess and 
develop WaterAid partners, and a development plan for 
country operations, among other projects. 
When her work was shared at a regional meeting of 
WaterAid country representatives, some of them asked her to provide support for their country programs. “Consequently,” she notes, “I had an opportunity to visit 
Ghana to work with the local Administrative and HR Officer.  
I shared some of the processes we were using in Nigeria  and assisted her with staff development planning and 
partner job analysis, among other things.”
Pfizer Health Fellows also develop unexpected 
connections in the field. When Juanita and her WaterAid colleagues visited BOLDA, a WaterAid partner, they learned 
about a new program—a support group 
for people with disabilities to help them 
gain access to water and basic services. 
BOLDA’s president expressed the need for wheelchairs and computers so members of the group could learn computer skills. 
Juanita returned and worked to get 
computers and wheelchairs donated through Pfizer and 
United Hands, a US-based nonprofit organization for which 
Juanita volunteered at home.
Juanita was also instrumental in helping to arrange 
additional Pfizer computer donations that allowed scores  of Nigerians to obtain computer skills. Most of the recipients 
would have never had this opportunity without the Global Health Fellows program. “I wish it were possible for me 
to pass on all the sincere words of gratitude that I have 
received,” she says. 
inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 serve
Advocating for improved healthcare for the underserved and sharing best practices  
to improve healthcare delivery to this population 
Netherlands
Chronic Obstructive 
Pulmonary Disease (COPD), 
which encompasses both 
emphysema and chronic bronchitis, progressively restricts 
a person’s ability to breathe. 
The World Health Organization estimates that COPD kills more than 2.75 million people each year, the fourth 
leading cause of death alongside HIV/AIDS. 
Partners in Care Solutions (PICASSO) for COPD  
is an initiative of Pfizer and Boehringer Ingelheim  in collaboration with the Caphri Research Institute  
of the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands. PICASSO focuses on optimizing COPD care, providing 
support to new and existing COPD projects, stimulating 
the interaction between these initiatives, and creating 
disease awareness and strategic partnerships. A 
multidisciplinary team of experts in COPD and healthcare optimization serve as program ambassadors 
to help create momentum and support in the field  
and to promote best practices. 
So far, the program has generated many strategic 
alliances (e.g., with ZonMW, a Dutch governmental healthcare innovation and research department), including 12 scientific research projects focusing 
on bridging gaps in COPD healthcare, 11 regional 
implementation projects in direct healthcare and two national task forces to formulate COPD healthcare 
standards. 
Russia 
The “Business for a Healthy 
Society Task Force,” launched in 
2005, recently published a book 
called “Health of Business—
Business of Health,” featuring 
Russian case studies, with 
support from Pfizer, to report on the challenges  of healthcare in Russia. The task force also sponsors 
conferences like a recent meeting in Yekaterinburg  
on health in the workplace, which was attended  by 80 health and safety managers, as well as the  
deputy governor of the region. As a result, local 
manufacturing companies set up a local chapter of  the Healthy Society Task Force. Another recent task 
force event was a session on how businesses deal  
with HIV-AIDS, followed by a session during which  
40 companies and nongovernmental organizations,  
all task force members, met to exchange ideas  and provide feedback.
inveSting	in	health 46 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportPfizer Health Solutions:
A Case Study in Reversing the Impact of Chronic Diseases 
Green Ribbon Health
As part of the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act 
(Section 721), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services (CMS) awarded eight Medicare Health 
Support pilots to provide health support services to 
Fee for Service Medicare beneficiaries who live with 
congestive heart failure and/or diabetes among their 
conditions. CMS awarded one of the eight contracts to Humana Inc. to operate the Medicare Health Support 
(MHS) program in Florida. Green Ribbon Health, a 
50/50 limited liability corporation, was established by Humana and Pfizer Health Solutions to provide MHS 
services under Humana’s Cooperative Agreement with 
CMS. If this MHS program is shown to be successful, the Secretary of Health and Human Services has the 
authority to expand the program following the pilot 
period. Green Ribbon Health staff work with physicians to help coordinate care and support MHS participants, 
as well as their families and caregivers, as they manage 
their health and deal with progressive diseases. Green Ribbon Health staff members are trained to work with 
participants to help them maintain their dignity and 
independence, preserve their access to care, and work with them to make choices that are aligned with their 
personal values and preferences.Chronic diseases—illnesses like diabetes, 
heart disease, asthma and obesity that can 
be managed but not cured—are the leading 
causes of death and disability in the United States. In addition to the human cost of 
suffering and premature death that can 
accompany chronic disease, the healthcare system cannot effectively address escalating 
costs without helping people learn to manage 
and prevent these diseases. 
In this challenging environment, Pfizer 
Health Solutions (PHS) partners with governments, payers and providers to 
implement and support culturally sensitive, 
community-based programs that help people engage in healthy behaviors and be more 
active participants in managing their own 
health. These partnerships have proven to be effective in helping people prevent 
complications and acute events. This, in turn, 
saves healthcare resources by preventing  the need for expensive services such as the 
use of emergency rooms and hospitals.  
For more information on these partnerships, please see www.pfizerhealthsolutions.com.The programs include:
inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 46inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Amigos en Salud 
In partnership with local healthcare providers, Pfizer 
designed and implemented this diabetes education 
and peer support program to augment healthcare 
services provided in six low-income Hispanic communities around the US. The program developed 
culturally appropriate educational materials—delivered 
individually and in groups—in conjunction with the community. Peer health educators—local community 
health workers trained to provide services in a culturally 
competent fashion—work in concert with physicians and nurses. We are currently working to make elements 
of the Amigos en Salud program available in the public 
domain.Balance It Out: Arkansas
Being overweight or obese is one of the most  
critical public health threats, according to the US 
Surgeon General, and a risk factor for many costly  
and debilitating chronic diseases. Balance It Out: Arkansas, a public health initiative launched in 
November 2006, is designed to improve the lives  
of children and their families, through their communities and schools, by addressing risk factors for developing 
chronic disease, diet and sedentary lifestyle. The 
prevention-based program is being implemented  by Pfizer Health Solutions in three school districts  
in Arkansas. The program includes screenings, behavior 
assessments, and one-on-one coaching on nutrition, healthy cooking, eating, and food shopping.
Florida: A Healthy State
From 2001 through September 2005, this partnership 
between the State of Florida and Pfizer reduced 
healthcare costs by improving the health of chronically 
ill beneficiaries of medicaid, state-sponsored healthcare assistance. Through a network of community hospitals, physicians, civic organizations and patient 
groups, Florida’s Agency for Health Care Administration 
(AHCA) and Pfizer designed a program that provided care management, new health benefits, and healthcare 
support. In its fourth year, Florida: A Healthy State 
saved the State of Florida $34.8 million in medical cost reductions. This is in addition to $7.4 million in 
investments that Pfizer made to support program 
operations across the state. From program inception through September 2005, Florida: A Healthy State 
generated $139.5 million in savings and program 
investments and provided access to previously unavailable healthcare resources to over 180,000 
Medicaid beneficiaries with chronic conditions. The 
State of Florida managed the Florida: A Healthy State program for an additional 15 months (October 2005 
through December 2006), during which time Pfizer 
provided technical and program support.
inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 47inveSting	in	health 48 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportimproving Access to Medicines
pfizer Helpful answers™ 2004 
A family of patient prescription assistance 
programs that helps patients without 
prescription drug coverage save on many 
Pfizer medicines, no matter their age or income. Patients with limited income (generally 
less than two-times the Federal Poverty 
Level, adjusted for family size) may qualify for free Pfizer medicines. Programs that provide 
free Pfizer medicines include: Connection to 
Care™, Sharing the Care™, and the Pfizer Hospital Partnership Program. A Pfizer initiative. In 2006, Pfizer Helpful Answers helped  
over 1,500,000 patients receive over 9 million 
Pfizer prescriptions and saved patients  
over $800 million.*
* Based on wholesale acquisition cost for free medicine 
programs and actual savings received by patients for 
savings programs. 
Sharing the Care 1993 
Provides Pfizer medicines for free to eligible 
patients through more than 430 participating 
federally qualified community health centers 
across the US.National Governors Association, National 
Association of Community Health Centers.In 2006, Pfizer helped more than 600,000 
patients receive more than 2 million Pfizer 
prescriptions for free through the Sharing the 
Care program. 
Connection to Care 2002 
Provides Pfizer medicines for free to qualified 
patients through their doctors’ offices.More than 100,000 physicians currently have 
patients participating in the program.In 2006, Pfizer helped nearly 650,000 patients 
receive more than 6 million Pfizer prescriptions 
for free through the Connection to Care 
program.
Hospital Partnership Program 2003 
Provides Pfizer medicines for free through 
disproportionate share hospitals across the US.More than 40 large urban hospitals. In 2006, Pfizer helped more than 142,000 
patients receive 500,000 Pfizer prescriptions 
for free through the Pfizer Hospital 
Partnership Program.
partnership for prescription  
assistance 2005 
A single point of access to help connect 
patients in the US to more than 475 public and 
private patient assistance programs, including 
Pfizer Helpful Answers. 
A national effort sponsored by America’s 
pharmaceutical research companies, in 
partnership with more than 60 national organizations, including the American Academy 
of Family Physicians, Easter Seals, National 
Alliance for Hispanic Health, National Urban 
League, United Way of America, and NAACP . 
In 2006, the Partnership for Prescription 
Assistance matched more than 2 million patients to prescription assistance programs.Type of program & aCTiviTy parTners impaCT on soCieTy
infectious Diseases institute 2004 
Regional treatment and training facility in 
Uganda that strengthens local capacity in HIV/
AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.Makerere University, the Academic Alliance 
Foundation, Mulago Hospital, San Francisco 
AIDS Foundation/Pangaea Global AIDS 
Foundation, Infectious Diseases Society of America, The AIDS Support Organization 
(TASO).Since 2004, IDI has trained more than 
1,400 healthcare providers from 26 African 
countries. The center currently provides care to 
approximately 10,000 patients.inveSting	in	health Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Diflucan partnership program 2001 
Partner with governments and NGOs in 
developing countries to donate Diflucan for 
opportunistic infections associated with HIV/
AIDS and train healthcare providers in HIV/AIDS care.Governments, healthcare professionals  
and clinics.To date*, over $570 million in medicine 
provided to help people in 59 countries in 
Africa, Asia and the Caribbean, and more than 
20,000 healthcare workers trained.Type of program & aCTiviTy parTners impaCT on soCieTy
aWarDs an D reCogni Tions
Pfizer was voted the top corporate giver by 
The Chronicle of Philanthropy in 2006.
Pfizer Hong Kong received the Gold 
Award from the Hong Kong Social Welfare Department in recognition of its commitment 
to volunteerism.
Pfizer Global Health Fellows received the first 
annual Corporate Citizenship award from 
Global HR News in May 2007.global Health fellows 2003 
Pfizer sends 30 to 40 employees a year for 
up to six months to work with NGOs fighting 
infectious disease in Africa, Asia, Latin America 
and Eastern Europe.NGOs including Health Volunteers Overseas, 
Project HOPE, International Rescue 
Committee, Family Health International, and 
PEPFAR.To date*, 128 Fellows have been selected 
to serve as physicians, epidemiologists, 
nurses, educators, and business consultants 
in 31 countries with 26 nongovernmental organizations.
international Trachoma initiative 1998 
Program to eliminate trachoma, the world’s 
leading cause of preventable blindness, 
through an integrated public health strategy  
of training healthcare professionals and medicine donations.Founded by Pfizer and Edna McConnell Clark 
Foundation; now includes governments, 
donors, NGOs, companies, and UN agencies.To date*, ITI has given 54 million treatments 
of Zithromax® to patients in 13 countries and 
trained thousands of healthcare workers, who, 
in turn have completed more than 277,000 
surgeries to treat advanced cases of trachoma. In 2006, after six years of work, Morocco 
became the first country to complete the 
campaign for trachoma control and is working towards WHO certification that trachoma has 
been eliminated.
* Spring 200750 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportstrengthening
PATieNT SAFeTY
Patient safety is our top commitment. 
To make sure our medicines are safe and effective, 
we have a rigorous evaluation process that  
starts at the earliest stages of drug discovery and 
continues long after our medicines are on the 
market. w e continue to take new actions to improve 
our transparency and communications about safety.Strengthening	P atient	S afety Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 
Strengthening	P atient	S afety 52 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report2006/2007 key aCT ions
 Established a new medical governance 
process that strengthens internal 
coordination and accountability 
throughout product lifecycles. 
Launched a website to disclose safety 
studies on our medicines after they are 
on the market. 
  Introduced new packaging and 
shipping technology to support anti-
counterfeiting efforts.identifying, Analyzing and 
reporting Safety data
we employ about 2,000 professionals—
including physicians, nurses, pharmacists, 
medical research scientists, and statisticians—
who are dedicated to patient safety. Their sole responsibility is to identify, analyze and 
report potential safety issues at every point 
in the life of a medicine—from a compound’s early discovery phase, through clinical trials 
and regulatory approval, and for as long as  
it is prescribed by physicians. 
Pfizer scientists use information reported 
by physicians, patients and caregivers, as well as peer-reviewed journals and medical 
literature, to detect health risks as early in a 
medicine’s lifecycle as scientifically possible. in partnership with outside experts and 
health authorities, we thoroughly evaluate 
all reported potential safety concerns and communicate risks to physicians and 
patients in the most timely way possible.Strengthening	P atient	S afety Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Strengthening Pfizer  
medical	governance
in response to new challenges and 
stakeholder concerns about the safety 
of medicines, we have established a new 
medical governance process that strengthens coordination and accountability among 
the medical and safety organizations 
responsible for the benefit/risk profiles of our investigational and approved medicines.These procedures reflect Pfizer’s increased scale, the critical importance of reaching 
clear medical decisions on a timely basis, 
and the need for transparency in Pfizer’s medical decision-making process, both 
internally and externally.
This new process is comprised of a 
three-tiered Medical Review Committee 
structure:
The product medical review 
Committees are composed of 
our product teams, as well as 
medical, safety, regulatory and legal representatives. These committees 
oversee the development and 
maintenance of the benefit/risk profile  of specific compounds. The executive medical review 
Committee is chaired by the 
Chief Medical Officer and senior 
management. This committee provides oversight, direction and resolution of 
conflicts arising from the legitimate 
diversity of medical opinion that can often exist.
The Therapeutic area medical 
review Committees are composed of 
senior therapeutic area medical, safety, 
regulatory and legal management. These committees provide primary 
oversight and support of the Product 
Medical Review Committees, as needed.
Strengthening	P atient	S afety 54 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportCommunicating About Safety to Key 
Stakeholders
In addition to assuring best practices internally, Pfizer is taking steps to broaden safety awareness and continuously improve 
safety communications. These include:
•		Making	information	on	our	medicines’	labeling	easier	 
to understand
•		Developing	and	continually	updating	brochures	for	doctors	
and patients that explain the appropriate use of our 
medicines
•		Producing	safety	training	materials	for	physicians	who	
conduct clinical trials 
•		Providing	clearer	safety	information	on	our	product	
websites to help patients understand the safety issues 
involved with the medicines they are taking.
Working with Regulators
We want to make sure the medicines we develop and produce 
are approved and monitored by strong, effective and rigorous 
regulatory agencies. We support a drug regulatory framework 
that is well funded and effectively managed, both pre- and post-approval. We are committed to working with regulatory 
agencies, governments and other stakeholders to address 
concerns about drug safety.
Regulatory guidelines provide a checks and balances 
system for safety reporting. We must notify the FDA in the US, for example, of adverse findings within seven days of becoming aware of an unexpected life-threatening safety 
issue and within 15 days for a serious unexpected health risk. 
Non-serious events are aggregated and reported periodically.
Meanwhile, in the US, we support proposals that will 
strengthen the FDA’s ability to conduct regular surveillance, identify new safety signals and hypotheses, and communicate risks to patients and health professionals. We also believe 
the FDA should have access to safety data from large study 
populations so that risks and benefits can be evaluated with the most rigorous statistical methods. And we strongly 
support proposals that require mandatory risk management 
plans, which we already include in our drug application submissions.Conducting Post-Marketing Studies
Our safety research and assessment continues throughout the life of a drug because additional risks or benefits can become 
apparent after a medicine is approved for marketing and 
reaches a broader and larger patient population. In this post-marketing effort, Pfizer spends millions of dollars and employs 
a staff of medical professionals around the world who work 
with outside experts to evaluate potential concerns, using the best scientific methods at our disposal, including techniques 
that look at real-world, post-approval patient experiences with 
our medicines. We employ new technologies to gather patient experiences with our medicines as quickly and accurately as 
possible.
Increasingly, regulators are requiring a plan to monitor 
patient safety post-approval. As part of our commitment to patients and regulators, Pfizer proactively proposes 
comprehensive medicine safety plans before they become a requirement. Working with regulators, we develop long-
term studies of large patient populations in real-world clinical 
practice environments to help further ensure patient safety once a medicine is available. For example:
•		Our clinical program for Exubera
®, inhaled insulin, includes 
studies evaluating its long-term safety. The studies are 
run by an independent governance structure and are 
designed to further evaluate the effects of long-term exposure to Exubera
® on the lungs. Independent physician 
investigators will continue to study the effects of the 
medicine in thousands of patients in several countries,  
in real-world settings, over the long term.
•		Our medicine for arthritis pain, Celebrex®, is being 
reviewed in an independent study conducted by the 
Cleveland Clinic. We have invested $300 million in 
the study, which is overseen by an Independent Data Monitoring Board, and compares cardiovascular effects 
of Celebrex
® against ibuprofen and naproxen in a double-
blinded, randomized program that will involve more than 20,000 patients. Strengthening	P atient	S afety 55 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report Pfizer’s Post-Marketing 
Transparency
we understand concerns from some 
stakeholders about the need for more 
transparency and information on the  
safety of medicines once they reach  the marketplace. To address this, we  
took an important step in leading  
public accountability—the launch in May 2007 of our online post-marketing 
transparency initiative. 
Through this initiative, we created a website to provide  
up-to-date, user-friendly information on the status of our US 
post-marketing commitments. Post-marketing commitments 
(PMCs) are studies conducted after a medicine receives regulatory approval, often as a requirement for approval 
or continued marketing of some medicines. The studies 
are designed to provide additional information about the medicine’s safety, efficacy or optimal use. This initiative is the 
first of its kind for a pharmaceutical company.
The website provides study descriptions and status of US 
FDA post-marketing commitments, current due dates, total listed Pfizer PMCs, and general information about the PMC 
process. It is available at www.pfizer.com/pmc.
“From a medical compound’s discovery, through its 
development, and for as long as it is prescribed, each of our medicines undergoes thorough safety and efficacy monitoring and evaluation in collaboration with health authorities around 
the world,” said Pfizer’s Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Joseph 
Feczko. “This kind of transparency helps encourage patients to ask their physicians about treatment options. When 
these conversations happen, they often help patients better 
understand the risks and benefits of different treatment options.”
The FDA first posted a database of all the industry’s post-
marketing commitments on its public website in 2003. The new Pfizer site expands the information available, presented 
with easy search functions, a glossary of terms, and frequently 
asked questions about PMCs. Users can view our regulatory commitments for prescription medications by product name, 
approval date and study status, among other criteria. We will 
update the site weekly.“ This kind of transparency 
helps encourage patients to ask their physicians about 
treatment options. When 
these conversations happen, they often help patients better understand the risks and 
benefits of different treatment 
options.” 
— Joe feCzko, m.D.  
CHief meDiCal offiCer, pfizer 
Strengthening	P atient	S afety 56 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportin state-of-the-art forensic facilities to support these efforts. 
Supporting these agencies includes the testing of suspected 
counterfeit products to determine their authenticity, and 
entering results in a database, which has helped to trace the flow of counterfeit products. In addition, Pfizer has 
provided 40 training programs for enforcement and regulatory 
authorities in 17 countries.
Our partnerships with those agencies have contributed 
to the dismantling of counterfeiting operations in more than 20 countries, including Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Egypt, India, Israel, Jordan, Mexico, 
the Netherlands, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Russia, 
Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Kingdom and the United States.Pharmaceutical counterfeiting is on the rise around the globe, potentially putting at risk 
millions of patients who take for granted 
that the prescription medicines they buy are safe and effective. Counterfeit drugs 
are dangerous by their very nature—they 
are not produced under safe manufacturing practices and they are not inspected by the 
regulatory authorities. Many are produced 
by criminals with sophisticated equipment capable of duplicating near-perfect copies of 
the medicines and their packaging.
Because counterfeiters are frequently more concerned with 
the appearance than the efficacy of their counterfeits, it is 
impossible for patients to know what ingredients these fake 
medicines actually contain. Some may contain none of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, depriving patients of the therapeutic benefit they expected from the product. Others 
may contain lethal ingredients, including heavy metal, arsenic, 
boric acid, leaded paint and floor polish. 
To address this issue, Pfizer launched a focused anti-
counterfeiting program in 1998 to detect and disrupt major counterfeiting operations, in response to the detection of counterfeit Viagra
®. Since then, counterfeit Pfizer medicines 
have been found in at least 73 countries, with more than  
25 million counterfeit tablets seized by authorities in the past 
three years alone. In response to this growing problem, the staff devoted to combating counterfeiting has increased 
to 17 full-time colleagues, most of whom have prior law 
enforcement experience. 
We have partnered with law enforcement around the world, 
developing leads, providing those leads to law enforcement and regulatory agencies, and then assisting in those investigations as requested. We have also invested  deterring Medicine Counterfeiting  
to Protect Patient Safety
  Pfizer partners with law enforcement agencies around the world  
and has invested in state-of-the-art forensic facilities and training programs. 
These partnerships have helped to dismantle counterfeiting operations  
in more than 20 countries.Strengthening	P atient	S afety Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 
Using New Tools and Techniques 
In addition to investigating and prosecuting counterfeiters, 
we also review the integrity of the supply chain and have 
consequently introduced new high-security measures to 
differentiate between genuine and counterfeit products.  In high-risk markets, such as the UK, we have changed the 
way our medicines are distributed, opting to move away 
from the less-secure wholesaling model to supply directly to pharmacies. On many of our products, we have introduced 
color-shifting ink logos and tamper-evident packaging as 
authentication tools for pharmacists, doctors and patients. 
Using Radio Frequency ID to Combat Counterfeiting
In our latest initiative to combat pharmaceutical counterfeiting, we have begun a pilot program to ship a medicine containing 
radio frequency identification (RFID) tags to customers in the 
United States. 
RFID technology is being added to all Viagra
® tablets 
sold in the US so pharmacies and wholesalers can verify 
the unique electronic product code, or EPC, on Viagra® 
packaging. We are the first pharmaceutical company to put in place a program of this type, focused on EPC authentication 
as a means of deterring counterfeiting. 
Pfizer has invested several million dollars to date in the 
technology, which discourages counterfeiting because it is both difficult and expensive to duplicate. Pharmacists and wholesalers use specially-designed electronic scanners that 
communicate the code over the Internet to a secure Pfizer 
website. 
The company’s application of RFID is not yet capable of 
“tracking and tracing” medicines through the distribution system. “Track and trace” requires that all parts of the supply chain invest in compatible technology and agree to capture 
and share information about product movement. Pfizer will 
continue to explore the uses of this technology—including “track and trace” in 2007 and beyond.
Pfizer’s application of RFID does not allow for the 
collection of any patient information. We are also working cooperatively with standards-setting bodies, state 
governments, the FDA, industry groups and customers  
to establish policies for the widespread application of  RFID in the future.  How do you know if you’ve purchased a counterfeit medicine? In some 
cases, patients later identified counterfeits as having a different taste, odor, 
consistency or appearance. Patients may also have a different reaction to the counterfeit drug.Strengthening	P atient	S afety 58 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportimproving Safety in the drug 
distribution Chain
every year Americans fill more than three 
billion prescriptions through reputable 
pharmacies. The vast majority of these 
medicines are distributed through  top-quality wholesalers. But in the last  
few years, counterfeit drugs have entered 
the nation’s supply chain.
This problem is exacerbated by the split jurisdiction of drug safety. While the US FDA oversees the approval and 
manufacture of drugs, each of the 50 states is in charge of 
licensing and inspecting the wholesalers who distribute and dispense them. And now the Internet complicates matters 
even more.
To help prevent counterfeit medicines from entering the 
pharmaceutical distribution system, Pfizer has helped  shape model legislation that imposes criminal background 
checks and criminal penalties for counterfeiting. It also establishes licensing requirements for secondary wholesalers, 
and requires “change of ownership” documentation if 
medicines leave the traditional distribution chain.
Working with law enforcement agencies and many other 
stakeholders since 2004, anti-counterfeiting legislation has passed in 25 states, with the remaining 25 states either considering or introducing similar laws. Stakeholders 
working with Pfizer on this legislation include the Healthcare 
Distribution Management Association (HDMA), the National Association of Chain Drug Stores (NACDS) and the National 
Association of Boards of Pharmacy (NABP).
One change spurred by the legislation is a significant 
reduction in the number of transactions (the number of times a medicine changes hands) in the distribution process,  
from 15 to 20 transactions to three or four.  And when a medicine leaves the normal distribution chain, it would  
require a “pedigree”—a document or electronic file that  
would include defined data elements that established  the medicine’s change of ownership. By 2010, Pfizer expects 
to implement “e-pedigrees” for all our medicines, and  
those most susceptible to counterfeiting may also carry  a unique serial number.aWarDs an D reCogni Tion
Pfizer received, in 2007, an International 
Association of Business Communicator’s 
Gold Quill Award for communication materials 
developed for the Coalition Against Fake Medicines.
Pfizer was chosen by CIO (Chief Information 
Officer) magazine to receive its CIO 100 award in 2007, for using information technology 
effectively to create value.
Food & Drug Packaging magazine named 
Pfizer’s Amboise, France, manufacturing 
facility a 2006 Plant of the Year for its RFID 
pilot program used for Viagra
® packaging.Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 improving our Business Practices
What we do at Pfizer contributes to society’s  
overall health. 
How we do it is equally important to the well-being  
of people and the planet. 
working with our stakeholders, we welcome  
mutual accountability as society’s expectations continue  
to evolve.60 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportENVIRONMENT , HEALTH  
AND SAFETYeNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Advancing good health occurs not only through 
the discovery, development and distribution  
of medicines, but also by preserving and creating 
a healthy environment. Pfizer is dedicated to addressing environment, health and safety 
(EHS) issues relevant to our industry and our 
stakeholders through innovative policies and programs.
2006/2007 key aCT ions
Endorsed the UN Global Compact’s  
“Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership 
Platform” in May 2007 to advance climate 
change solutions.
Reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
in 2006 by about 179,400 tCO 2eq from  
the previous year; on track to achieve long-term goal of reducing carbon dioxide  
(CO
2) emissions per million dollars of sales  
by 35 percent in 2008.
Met Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 
emission reduction goal two years in advance of our 2008 target.
Implemented more than 400 energy 
conservation measures in 2006 resulting in an improvement in energy efficiency and 
reduction of 69,000 metric tons of CO
2 
emissions. Decreased water usage in 2006 by over  
21 million cubic meters. 
Achieved ISO 14001 certification for  
34 facilities, OHSAS 18001 certification  for 21 facilities, and OSHA VPP status  
for three facilities. 
Participated in the US EPA National 
Environmental Performance Track at eight 
facilities.
Partnered with the Alliance to Conserve  
the Maya Forest to promote sustainable 
growth and conservation in the second largest 
rainforest in the Americas.
Completed our second year using 30 percent  
post-consumer content recycled paper as the 
preferred paper for all US-based operations.eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY 62 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportClimate Change: Reducing Greenhouse Gases 
and Using Energy Wisely
The weight of scientific evidence indicates that global climate change is primarily caused by emissions related to burning 
fossil fuels—commonly referred to as greenhouse gases 
(GHG). Because this significant global environmental problem will have potential impact on the health of millions of people, 
Pfizer is not waiting for mandatory programs and has been 
proactive in reducing its emissions. 
Pfizer’s Climate Change 
and Energy Program seeks to minimize the cost and operational restrictions arising 
from a carbon-constrained 
environment, reduce Pfizer’s contribution to GHG emissions, 
and assess the risk presented to Pfizer’s operations from the 
potential physical changes resulting from a warming global 
climate. 
Pfizer has had a company standard requiring the 
conservation of energy and the reduction of GHG since 1996. In 2002, we became a charter member of the US EPA Climate Leaders Program, a government-industry partnership that 
works with companies to develop long-term, comprehensive 
climate change strategies. 
As a Climate Leader, we established a companywide goal 
of reducing carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions by 35 percent per 
million dollars of sales by the end of 2007 from the baseline 
year of 2000. In 2003, we expanded our goal to include a 
commitment to meet 35 percent of our electricity needs by 2010 through the use of clean energy technologies such as 
wind power, solar power, and cogeneration. 
In addition to reducing GHG emissions from our facilities, 
Pfizer is working to better understand the impact of our nearly 38,000 vehicles worldwide. In this regard, we are conducting 
a pilot program in 2007 to field-test hybrid vehicles to help increase fuel economy and reduce potential GHG emissions. 
We are also entering into a partnership with fuel providers to 
support clean energy projects that would offset the carbon emissions from our fleet.®To D aTe We Have es Tablis HeD  
five C ompany WiDe goals:
  Climate Change To reduce carbon  
dioxide emissions by 35 percent per million 
dollars of sales by 2007 from our baseline 
year 2000. 
  Clean Energy To meet 35 percent of our 
global electricity needs by 2010 through 
“clean” energy sources 
  Ozone Depleting Compounds (ODCs)  
To phase out the use of Class 1 ODCs in large heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning (HVAC) and industrial process equipment 
  Ozone Depletion Potential (ODP)  
To reduce our ODP from ODC releases by 
the end of 2007 by 80 percent from our 
2002 baseline
  Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)  
To reduce our releases of VOCs by  
40 percent on an absolute basis from the 
baseline year of 2002 by the end of 2008eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 Environmental performance data included in this report has been developed using practices that align with the World Resources Institute (WRI) protocol for GHG emissions. 
Principally, data has been standardized and baseline adjusted to more accurately account for changes in our environmental footprint due to site closures, divestitures, and acquisitions. The double bar graphs included for the environmental performance data represent the original data set reported and subsequent baseline adjustments. Safety 
performance data in this report, which is rate-based, is the actual data set at the time of collection.From baseline 2000 to 2006, Pfizer reduced GHG emissions by 32.7 percent per 
million dollars of sales. During the same time period, our absolute CO
2 emissions 
decreased approximately 11 percent. The company is on track to meet our goal of reducing CO
2 emissions 35 percent per million dollars of sales by the end of 2007 
from the baseline year 2000.Pfizer Progress Towards Goal: GHG Emissions Relative  
to Sales (metric tons per million $ sales)
 Fleet  Direct  IndirectAbsolute GHG Emissions (million metric tons)
Fleet
 Actual  AdjustedDirect
 Actual  AdjustedIndirect
 Actual  Adjusted0.00.51.01.52.5
2.03.0
01,0002,0003,0004,0006,000
5,0007,0008,000
02 03 04 05 06
2007 Goal0.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
2006-adj2006-act2005-adj2005-act2004-adj2004-act2003-adj2003-act2002-adj2002-act2001-adj2001-act2000-adj2000-act
02 00 01 03 04 05 06
2007 Goal
0405070
6080
30
20
10
02 00 01 03 04 05 06 07
Data Scope
a  Pfizer calculations of GHG emissions were completed referencing the WRI GHG 
Protocol, using the Operational Control Organizational Boundary method and a 
materiality threshold of 5 percent.
b  The data is based on facility-specific utility invoices for purchased quantities of electricity, fuel oil, natural gas, and steam.
c  Direct CO
2 emissions—emissions resulting from the combustion of fossil fuels at 
our facilities to provide steam for manufacturing processes, heating and cooling.
d  Indirect CO 2 emissions—emissions resulting primarily from the combustion of 
fossil fuels for purchased electricity and steam.
e Fleet emissions—emissions resulting from the operation of our global sales fleet.eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY 64 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportSignificant energy activities at some of  
our sites include:
•		A	major	capital	improvement	project	at	our	Groton,	
Connecticut R&D and manufacturing site will add  
a 10 megawatt cogeneration system, which will 
contribute substantially toward our 35 percent clean energy technology goal.
•		Conversion	of	an	oil-burning	boiler	used	for	heating	
at our Thane, India manufacturing facility to burn a renewable sugarcane waste product.
•		At	our	Singapore	manufacturing	site,	construction	
of a new high-efficiency “trigeneration” energy plant will provide electricity, heating and cooling using 
technology that should reduce CO
2 emissions by an 
estimated 15 percent. 
•		Photovoltaic solar panels have been installed on 
buildings at our La Jolla, California research facility and our manufacturing plant in Freiburg, Germany. Planning for Change
Effectively managing the financial implications and 
opportunities associated with reducing climate impact is another important component of our program. We are piloting 
projects to secure and preserve carbon credits (e.g., Energy 
Efficiency Credits, Renewable Energy Credits) in preparation for emissions trading programs. In 2006, we were one of the first companies to successfully trade energy efficiency credits generated in the State of Connecticut.
In the longer term, we are striving to identify operating risks 
and business opportunities presented by a changing global climate, such as planning for severe storms and restricted 
water availability, and evaluating our response as a leader in 
healthcare to changing disease patterns. We will report on these risks and opportunities in more detail in future years.
Pfizer’s Green Building Program 
Pfizer owns or operates over  70 million square feet of facility space 
worldwide—and with it comes a significant 
environmental responsibility. 
We have made a commitment to 
develop environmentally responsible facilities through a program called “Green Buildings: Local Action, Global 
Results.” The goal is to promote the best alternatives to 
standard building materials and office interiors that support healthier, more eco-friendly business environments in 
addition to conserving natural resources and reducing energy 
consumption.
Our Green Buildings Team is also showcasing best 
practices across Pfizer to help colleagues make informed green and lifecycle cost decisions. 
The team has: 
•	 Developed	lifecycle	cost	analysis	tools	
•	 Created	a	Green	Buildings	evaluation	process	•	 Publicized	case	studies
•	 Introduced	a	recognition	program.
At the end of 2006, Pfizer obtained 17 percent of its energy needs from clean  
energy sources, with an estimated 7 percent contribution from future cogeneration. The company is on track to meet its goal of 35 percent of its energy consumption 
from clean energy sources by 2010 but continues to be challenged by facility 
closures, energy purchase considerations, capital investment decisions, and the operating costs and technical limitations associated with running cogeneration units.Clean Energy Use in 2006
Non-Clean Technology 75 percent
Current Hydro  4 percent
Current Renewable  2 percent
Current Cogenerated 11 percent
Future Cogeneration  7 percenteNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Conserving Water
The availability of clean potable water is one of the most 
important health issues of our time—and one that may be 
further exacerbated in coming years by climate change.  
Our commitment is not only to advance good health through our medicines, but also to advance good health in the 
communities in which we operate by conserving water and 
protecting water quality.
While Pfizer’s use of water in its research and manufacturing 
facilities is relatively small compared to some other industries, our responsible management of water is an important element of our global EHS program. Our EHS Guideline on Water 
Conservation requires facilities worldwide to: 
•	 Review	and	quantify	their	water	use	
•	 Identify	and	prioritize	water	conservation	measures	•		Develop,	implement	and	report	on	water	conservation	
action plans and targets 
•	 Support	community	efforts	during	drought	conditions.	
Although Pfizer’s overall water use continues to decrease,  
the consumption (net use) has remained fairly constant over 
the past four years, annually at approximately 30 million cubic 
meters. We see this as an area to improve and are working to better understand our global water use—needs, demand, 
potential impact—and will subsequently focus appropriate 
water conservation measures in these areas.Onsite Surface Water Not Visible on ChartWater Source (million cubic meters)
05101525
2035
3040
03 04 05 060510152025303540
06 06 05 05 04 04 03 03
Pfizer’s total water use continues to decline, showing an overall reduction  
of 33 percent from 2003 to 2006. Of the total water used in 2006, approximately  57 percent was returned to its original source subsequent to its use as one-pass, 
noncontact cooling water. In general, noncontact cooling water impacts water 
resource availability minimally, saves energy and reduces CO
2 emissions.Total Water Use (million cubic meters)
Noncontact Cooling Water
 Actual  AdjustedConsumption (net use)
 Actual  Adjusted020406080100120
03 04 05 06020406080100120
2006-adj 2006-act 2005-adj 2005-act 2004-adj 2004-act 2003-adj 2003-actOnsite Wells
 Actual  AdjustedOffsite Water
 Actual  Adjusted
On average, Pfizer obtains its water equally from offsite and onsite resources.  
Wells are the primary source onsite with only a few thousand gallons taken from onsite surface water. With plant considerations and production changes, total water 
use should continue to decline, resulting in a relative change to source.eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY 66 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportContinuing to Reduce our Footprint:  
Reducing Air and Waste Emissions
Pfizer’s commitment to reduce the environmental impact of our operations includes reducing our emissions to the air, 
minimizing the waste we produce and maximizing our use 
of recycled materials. We are also committed to effectively managing any waste we generate to eliminate its potential 
impact on human health and the environment. 
Eliminating Ozone Depleting Compounds (ODCs) and  
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)
To help protect the Earth’s ozone layer, we are committed to eliminating ODC releases from Pfizer operations worldwide. 
Once released into the atmosphere, ODCs rise into the 
stratosphere where they promote reactions that destroy the Earth’s protective ozone layer, allowing more harmful solar 
radiation (primarily ultraviolet radiation) to reach the Earth’s 
surface. Class I ODCs are known to be more harmful to the ozone layer than Class II compounds. 
Pfizer’s use of Class I ODCs is somewhat limited—
principally found in chillers and refrigeration units (CFCs) and in fire-suppression systems (Halons). 
We met our 2005 goal to phase out the use of Class I ODCs 
in large HVAC and industrial process equipment for specific facilities with the exception of those sites pending closure or 
those with major production changes, which would trigger 
taking Class I equipment out of service. Pfizer is working to meet its 2007 goal in which we pledged to phase out the 
remaining use of Class I ODC equipment.
Pfizer is not only committed to the phase-out of ODCs, 
the company set a public goal to reduce the ozone depletion potential (ODP) by 80 percent at the end of 2007 from baseline 
year 2002. We are pleased to report that through various measures which include ODC substitution and an aggressive 
maintenance and repair program, Pfizer has met the ODP goal 
a year in advance and is poised to retain its target.Pfizer uses VOCs primarily as solvents in our manufacturing 
processes. We have a long-standing strategy for reducing losses of VOCs to the environment through process improvements, in-line controls, and end-of-line devices.  
To realize further reductions, Pfizer set a public goal to 
further control VOC emissions by committing to reduce our releases by 40 percent on an absolute basis from the 
baseline year of 2002 by the end of 2008. We are pleased to 
report the company has met its absolute goal of a 40 percent VOC emission reduction, two years in advance of its target 
date 2008. Efforts attributed to this achievement include an 
aggressive solvent reduction program, production changes and installation of additional thermal oxidizer units.
Reducing our Waste 
We classify our waste as either special waste or non-special 
waste. Special waste is defined as waste that could adversely 
impact public health or the environment if mismanaged,  and includes such waste streams as biomedical waste, solvent 
and hazardous chemical wastes, returned pharmaceutical 
products and heavy metals. Non-special waste includes paper, cafeteria waste, and recyclables such as glass, metal 
and plastic.
Although there is a trend toward decreasing our total  
waste footprint (a 24 precent reduction from 2003 to 2006),  our recycling rates remain consistent at 26 percent. Compared 
with others in our industry, there is opportunity to improve. 
To help drive improvement in our waste and recycling 
performance, we continue to critically examine our global program and performance data associated with waste generation, as well as our onsite and offsite recycling programs. 
For example, Pfizer teams are focused on reducing solvent 
waste and promoting solvent recovery and recycling. At the site level, many facilities have found smart ways to reduce 
total waste generated, reuse material and recycle  
on- and offsite.eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Pfizer achieved the VOC public goal two years in advance of its target— 
our worldwide releases (to air and water) were reduced by 43 percent from our baseline year 2002 to 2006.At the end of 2006, we reduced our ODP from releases of ODCs by 82 percent against our baseline year of 2002, meeting our public goal one year in advance.  A 57 percent reduction was achieved from 2005 to 2006, as a result of ODC 
substitution, an aggressive maintenance and repair program, and plant 
considerations.Pfizer Progress Towards Goal:  
Total Ozone Depleting Potential (kilograms R-11 equivalents)
From Production
 Actual  AdjustedHCFC Loss
 Actual  AdjustedPrimary ODC Loss
 Actual  AdjustedPfizer Progress Towards Goal:  
VOC Releases to Air and Water (thousand kilograms)
Water
 Actual  AdjustedAir
 Actual  Adjusted
Pfizer reduced the generation of non-special waste by approximately 16 percent 
from 2003 to 2006, with a slight increase of 4 percent from 2005 to 2006—attributed to a more comprehensive data scope (i.e., data collected from more offices). Offsite 
recycling rates increased 49 percent in 2006 from 33 percent in 2003.Pfizer reduced the generation of special waste by approximately 27 percent from 2003 to 2006 and 12 percent from 2005 to 2006. The offsite recycling rate, however, 
remains consistent over the past four years at an average of 22 percent. Since our onsite recycling efforts are significant, there is a focus on refining data collection of this metric to advance the solvent recovery and recycling program further. Special Waste Generated  
(million kilograms)
Recycled Offsite
 Actual  AdjustedDisposed
 Actual  AdjustedNon-special Waste Generated  
(million kilograms)
Recycled Offsite
 Actual  AdjustedDisposed
 Actual  Adjusted01,0002,0003,0004,0006,000
5,0007,0008,000
02 03 04 05 06
2007 Goal
0300900
6001,2001,500
2007 Goal
02 03 04 05 06
01040
30
205080
6070
03 04 05 0601020304050607080
06 06 05 05 04 04 03 03
050200
150
100250300
03 04 05 06050100150200250300
2006-adj 2006-act 2005-adj 2005-act 2004-adj 2004-act 2003-adj 2003-acteNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY 68 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportUnderstanding the Impact of Pharmaceuticals 
in the Environment
Pharmaceuticals and their by-products have found their way into the environment by way of patient use for as long as 
medicines have been used to treat disease. However, our 
awareness of this issue has increased with the development of new analytical technologies that detect minute traces 
of pharmaceuticals and other organic chemicals in the 
environment. 
Patient use of prescription and over-the-counter 
medications is the most significant pathway by which trace amounts of pharmaceuticals enter the environment. Because people excrete medicines that are not fully metabolized or 
absorbed by the body, and because sewage treatment plants 
are generally not equipped to remove these constituents, trace amounts of medicines are present in rivers, streams and 
other surface waters. A small quantity of pharmaceuticals may 
be introduced into the environment when patients dispose of unused prescription and OTC medications in landfills and 
sewage systems, but disposal is not believed to be a major 
pathway. 
Several studies to date indicate that the presence of trace 
concentrations of pharmaceuticals in surface water and drinking water present no appreciable risk to human health, but scientific knowledge on the cumulative or long-term 
impact of these trace levels on both human health and aquatic 
ecosystems is in the earliest stages of development. 
Because Pfizer is committed to adhering to principles of 
responsible environmental stewardship, we are working in close cooperation with the scientific community, regulatory agencies, patient groups and NGOs to develop and advance 
the body of knowledge related to pharmaceuticals in the 
environment and their potential impacts. For instance, Pfizer was an active participant in the pharmaceutical industry’s 
development of the PhATE model, a scientific tool that can 
be used to more realistically estimate the concentration and distribution of active pharmaceutical ingredients discharged 
into US surface waters. 
Pfizer also participates in product take-back programs 
in countries that have initiated them. We are committed to minimizing the disposal of pharmaceuticals from patients and 
to investigating unused medicine disposal alternatives.Realizing the Promise of Green Chemistry
Pfizer has been at the forefront of developing and manufacturing drugs using environmentally-friendly Green 
Chemistry (GC) practices. By applying GC principles, 
Pfizer has improved the way it produces many products, substantially reducing waste, saving money, and winning 
recognition for its environmental efforts. 
For example, Lyrica
®, which treats 
neuropathic pain associated with diabetes or shingles, is being manufactured using a 
third-generation synthesis of the product that eliminates five million gallons of waste 
per year. Similarly, a green chemistry 
modification for the manufacture of Vfend
®, 
an antifungal medication, 15 years in the 
making, led to a reduction of 25,000 tons of waste per year.
In order to share knowledge within our organization, 
colleagues meet monthly to produce common education 
materials for chemists and engineers. The first of these 
materials—a guide in the selection of environmentally-friendly solvents—has been rolled out to chemists throughout Pfizer’s 
R&D organization and is subsequently used by chemists 
and engineers in the manufacturing organization. Similarly, a reagents guide has been developed and is expected to be 
distributed over the next few months. 
Pfizer teams also actively collaborate to promote the 
principles of Green Chemistry through a number of community outreach activities, including workshops, conferences and 
curricula for middle school, high school and universities.
Recognized as a Green Chemistry Leader
In 2002, Pfizer received the US Environmental 
Protection Agency Presidential Green Chemistry Award 
for applying Green Chemistry to the manufacturing 
of Zoloft®. Pfizer doubled the product yield and 
significantly reduced EHS impact in the process.
Pfizer’s efforts to enhance the EHS profile of 
Viagra® were honored in 2003 with the receipt of the 
UK Institute of Chemical Engineers (IChemE) “Crystal 
Faraday Award for Green Chemical Technology.” 
Pfizer reduced the amount of organic process wastes generated from 4,300 tons per year to only 300 tons 
per year. 
In October 2006, IChemE once again recognized 
Pfizer for Green Chemistry practices for Lyrica
® 
and Vfend®. Lyrica® won the top European Green 
Chemistry award—the Excellence in Green Chemistry and Engineering Award—and Vfend
® was a finalist for 
the Faraday Award.GREEN CHEMISTRYeNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Workplace Safety: Enhancing Strong Safety 
Performance Across the Business 
Attaining workplace safety across a business as diverse as Pfizer’s is a challenge. With offices, laboratories, 
manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and other working 
environments, ensuring safety excellence requires the focus and attention of the entire business. 
“Workplace safety” includes: 
•		Providing	a	workplace	where	chemical	and	physical	
hazards are appropriately managed
•		Establishing	a	culture	where	all	colleagues	prioritize	safety	
and constantly demonstrate care and safe behavior
•		Ensuring	the	medical	well-being	of	our	colleagues	in	the	
workplace 
•		Making	certain	that	our	operations	are	not	at	risk	of	an	
accidental chemical release, fire, explosion or any other 
unexpected process upset 
•		Safeguarding	those	in	the	workplace	from	adverse	
exposure to chemical hazards and 
•		Protecting	the	safety	of	our	drivers	and	those	who	share	
the roads with our drivers. 
Pfizer is committed to ensuring the safety of its colleagues and others and promoting a safety culture in all our areas of 
operations.
eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY 70 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportReducing Injuries and Promoting  
a Culture of Safety
Every person who works at or visits a Pfizer site expects to leave the work environment unharmed by their activities. This 
simple tenet is the goal of Pfizer’s colleague safety program, 
and underlying this goal are two primary objectives—to continuously improve our safety performance and to maintain 
a strong safety culture throughout the company. 
To further improve our safety performance, Pfizer has 
developed and implemented a comprehensive set of safety 
KEY CULTURE
ELEMENTSManagement
Systems
Communication
Peer to Peer
Coaching
Personal
Responsibility
Performance
ManagementKnowledge
& TrainingActive
ParticipationManagement
DemonstrationResource
Allocationguidelines that establish baseline performance criteria. 
For example, each Pfizer facility is required to establish 
and implement a safety management system that includes 
workplace risk identification and control, management and colleague safety committees, safety training, incident reporting 
and investigation systems, safety procedure implementation 
and documentation, management system review, and performance expectations.eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 One of our primary injury and illness measures is the Lost Time Injury and Illness  
rate (LTIR), the number of injuries and illnesses (incidents per 100 colleagues) that result in one or more lost work days per 100,000 hours worked. From 2003 to  
2006, we reduced our lost time injury and illness rate by 21 percent. However, from 
2005 to 2006 there was an approximate decrease of only 5 percent. We recognize our LTIR is above the 2006 pharmaceutical industry average of 0.47. We continue to evaluate the reasons behind the rate and in parallel, have implemented several 
programs in 2007 to advance our safety culture. Another one of our key metrics to help determine the adequacy of our safety 
programs is the Total Injury Rate (TIR), commonly referred to as the OSHA  recordable rate. It is expressed as the number of recordable injuries that occur  
per 100 employees per year. We track this information in addition to the LTIR 
because it captures more information on injuries, enabling us to better identify  and focus on areas in need of improvement. Pfizer successfully reduced its  TIR by 43 percent from 2003 to 2006, and 20 percent from 2005 to 2006, although 
we still remain above the 2006 pharmaceutical industry average of 1.04. As with  
the LTIR, there are significant efforts underway to bring this rate lower, decreasing the OSHA recordables. Illnesses and Injuries  
(total injury rate)
0.00.52.0
1.5
1.02.5
03 04 05 06Illnesses and Injuries  
(lost time injury rate)
0.00.7
0.5
0.30.6
0.4
0.2
0.10.8
03 04 05 06eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY 72 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportFleet Safety
As one of the world’s leaders devoted to healthcare, our  
sales force fleet is among the largest in the world. With 
an estimated fleet of 38,000 vehicles worldwide and and 
estimated 910 million miles traveled last year, driving is recognized as a significant risk, and safety continues to  
be a focus for the organization. 
Pfizer’s accident rate (accidents per million miles) is  
close to—but above—the pharmaceutical industry average. This is not where we would like it to be and we are  
committed to doing better. Performance improvement initiatives include efforts to standardize practices, increase 
driver safety awareness, conduct mandatory motor vehicle 
record reviews, and improve driver training. Safeguarding  our drivers and those who share the roads with them is 
paramount to our program.Process Safety
The production of Pfizer’s medicines requires the use of 
complex R&D and manufacturing processes and techniques 
that have certain inherent risks. To address these risks 
and ensure the safety of our communities, colleagues and others, Pfizer has a mature and sophisticated process safety 
program designed to maintain safe and environmentally sound 
operations worldwide. This means taking the necessary steps to prevent the risk of an accidental chemical release, fire, 
explosion or any other unexpected process upset. 
In addition to full compliance with all laws and regulations, 
we use the EHS Guideline on Process Safety to make sure R&D and manufacturing facilities worldwide implement 
programs to protect our colleagues and communities from the threat of an accident. Those operations must develop and 
maintain a management system that, at a minimum, addresses 
process and equipment operating practices and controls together with site and community emergency preparedness 
and response.
  “Greening Pfizer’s Fleet”—The US fleet is piloting the 2007 Toyota Camry 
Hybrid this year, a vehicle alternative that meets our safety selection criteria and 
considers environmental and economic benefits. eNviroNMeNT , HeALTH ANd SAFeTY Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 aWarDs an D reCogni Tion
Received our third successive Missouri 
Water Environmental Association “Gold Star 
Certificate” for pretreatment achievements  
by our St. Louis R&D facility.
Honored with the National Award from  
the Irish National Safety Organization to our 
Ireland-based manufacturing sites. 
Achieved program recertification for  
the Kalamazoo, Michigan site from the  
Wildlife Habitat Council.
Recognized by the “Labs for the  
21st Century,” a collaborative partnership 
between the US EPA and US DOE, the  Ann Arbor B520 Renovation Project was  
first in its class for Pfizer.
Earning the first  
Silver-rated award in 
Leadership in Energy  
and Environmental  Design in Connecticut,  
our Clinical Research  
Unit located in New Haven was also the  
first industry project to receive three (out  
of four) Green Globe certifications.For more information  
about Pfizer’s Environment, Health and Safety Program, 
please visit www.pfizer.com/
responsibility .
74 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportGOVERNANCE AND 
COMPLIANCEPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 gOvernance	&	cOmPliance2006/2007 key aCTions
Elected Jeff Kindler as Chairman and CEO.
Elected Constance J. Horner as Lead 
Independent Director.
Strengthened the link between executive 
compensation and Pfizer’s financial 
performance through several actions by the 
Board of Directors.
Initiated face-to-face meetings between 
institutional investors and the Board.
Adopted a new international procedure  
to improve our implementation of the  
US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local  
anti-bribery laws.The Impact of Culture and Values
Improvements in corporate governance alone will not 
generate trust or restore investor confidence. Good corporate 
governance must be rooted in the culture and values of the 
organization and the way we do business every day. Our colleagues understand that these values apply to everyone, 
everywhere around the globe.
Our ability to be viewed as a trusted member of society 
begins with the Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct. In addition, Pfizer Directors are required to comply with a Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics designed specifically to cover 
all areas of professional conduct relating to service on our 
Board. These policies and code, as well as others mentioned in this section, can be found at www.pfizer.com/corpgov .Over the last few years, the business community 
has been revamping its corporate governance 
procedures in response to shareholder demands 
for increased transparency. In 1992 we became the first major company to form a department 
devoted exclusively to corporate governance. 
We have worked steadily to build a solid foundation of leadership in Board effectiveness 
and accountability to shareholders and all 
stakeholders. This year, we took new actions to build on that legacy.76 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportInstituting Greater Accountability in Executive 
Compensation       
Executive compensation was a key issue for 
shareholders and other stakeholders and it underwent 
comprehensive changes in 2006 during a time of 
CEO transition. The Board elected Jeff Kindler to the position of Chief Executive Officer in July 2006 and 
structured a compensation plan that provides a tight 
link between his future pay and near- and long-term value creation for Pfizer shareholders. A significant 
portion of his total compensation is tied directly to 
Pfizer’s shareholder returns. He does not have an employment contract, and his retirement benefits 
are based on the same formula as other salaried 
Pfizer employees. In addition to strengthening the link among the CEO’s annual incentive pay, financial 
performance and shareholder value, the Board 
refocused 2006 performance-share grants so that rewards are determined solely on the basis of relative 
total shareholder return, as compared to other major 
pharmaceutical companies. Pfizer is also now using a higher-performing pharmaceutical peer group, as well 
as a Fortune 100 peer group, to compare competitive 
compensation and performance criteria.Ensuring Board Independence
The Board is comprised of a majority of independent directors, and has elected a nonmanagement director to serve in a lead 
capacity. The current Lead Independent Director, Constance J. 
Horner, presides at executive sessions, functions as principal liaison on Board-wide issues between the independent 
directors and the Chairman, assures an appropriate agenda 
and flow of information to the Board, and recommends the retention of outside advisors and consultants who report 
directly to the Board. If requested by shareholders, the Lead 
Independent Director will be available, as appropriate, for consultation and direct communication.
The Board of Directors adopted a formal set of Director 
Qualification Standards, which outline guidelines for director independence that either meet or exceed the independence 
requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Strict 
guidelines for Directors and their immediate families must be followed with respect to past employment or affiliation with 
Pfizer or its independent registered public accounting firm.  
All of our Directors are independent, with the exception of our Chairman, Jeff Kindler and our Chairman Emeritus, William  
C. Steere, Jr. 
 The Board follows a defined set of Corporate Governance 
Principles and conducts an annual evaluation to assure that the guidelines are timely, effective, and best represent 
the Board’s oversight and accountability on behalf of shareholders. Each Board committee has a charter outlining 
its responsibilities, and a checklist of oversight responsibilities 
to be covered throughout the year.
As part of the annual nomination process for directors, the 
Corporate Governance Committee reviews the qualifications of each director, evaluating skills and talents to assure a balance of expertise in various disciplines and perspectives.
Encouraging Shareholder and  Stakeholder Participation
Pfizer’s Corporate Governance Committee Charter requires directors to “maintain an informed status on Company issues 
related to corporate social responsibility and the Company’s 
participation and visibility as a global corporate citizen.” To assure effective communication, Pfizer was among the first 
companies to expand communication via the Internet, so 
shareholders and all stakeholders can contact members of the  Board directly.
Relevant communications are distributed to the Board 
or individual directors, and the Board receives a quarterly summary of all shareholder and stakeholder communications. 
This practice serves as an early warning system, so the Board 
can identify and respond to shareholder and stakeholder concerns.Meeting Face-to-Face
Pfizer is the first company to initiate a regular meeting between its Board and institutional investors on governance. 
The Board will invite representatives who evaluate governance 
practices and who vote the proxies of the company’s largest institutional investors. These representatives will have an 
opportunity to provide comments and perspective on Pfizer’s 
governance policies and practices including executive compensation. They own in aggregate approximately  
35 percent of Pfizer’s shares. The initial meeting is planned  
for the fall of 2007.
Pfizer has been in the forefront of corporate governance  
for over two decades. It has taken the lead in the elimination of its poison pill; the declassification of the Board, so that  all directors are elected at each annual meeting; the adoption 
of majority voting policy; and expanded disclosures on 
executive compensation well ahead of new SEC regulations. The company was also among the first to use SEC “Plain 
English” rules to make disclosures more understandable to 
investors. 
gOvernance	&	cOmPliancePfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 77 Complying with All Laws, Committed  
to the Highest Ethical Standards
Pfizer’s Board of Directors established our Corporate Compliance Program to support the company’s unyielding 
commitment to high standards of legal and ethical conduct. 
Our corporate ethics and compliance officer and staff provide oversight and guidance to ensure compliance with applicable 
laws, regulations and company policies, and foster a positive, 
ethical work environment for all employees. 
Colleagues worldwide also receive the Summary of Pfizer 
Policies on Business Conduct, or the “Blue Book” as it is known, and must sign a statement acknowledging that they have read it and will abide by it. The Blue Book has been 
translated into 45 languages. 
Our commitment to operate with integrity is supported 
by comprehensive and coordinated processes, policies, communications and training, which enable colleagues 
to act lawfully, meet internal expectations and promote transparency. Our compliance program cascades from our 
Chief Compliance Officer to Deputy Compliance Officers and 
a network of compliance liaisons at each site worldwide, with 24-hour toll-free hotlines. For a detailed overview of Pfizer’s 
corporate governance policies, procedures, management 
structure and staff, please visit www.pfizer.com/corpgov . 
Advancing Colleague Understanding: Pfizer Compliance Education Center   The legal environment is becoming more complicated with 
each passing year, so we addressed the need for additional 
colleague education by creating the Pfizer Compliance Education Center. The Center offers a series of interactive 
programs, delivered through the web and other available 
means, which are customized to meet individual needs in the areas of greater risk. For example, sales representatives 
throughout the United States receive annual training in the 
various healthcare laws and Pfizer policies which affect their interactions with healthcare professionals. These programs 
cover topics of corporate compliance, as well as ethical 
and legal responsibility, primarily complementing the many programs already in place within the organization. The goal 
is to give colleagues access to compliance information at all 
times and to make sure, to the extent possible, that they are appropriately grounded in the key compliance issues that 
affect service to patients and customers
Every year we ask Pfizer colleagues, including the 
company’s senior leadership, to take the Pfizer Integrity Pledge and certify that they understand and are abiding by 
the standards described in the “Blue Book”. Online guidance and 24-hour support are available to any colleagues with 
questions or concerns in their area of the business.Preventing Bribery and Corruption
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which became US law in 1977, contains three key provisions that pertain to our 
business: 
•			An	anti-bribery	provision,	which	makes	it	unlawful	to	bribe	
foreign government officials directly or indirectly to obtain or retain business 
•			The	books	and	records	provision,	which	imposes	
requirements on public companies to maintain accurate 
books and records, and to implement stringent accounting and financial controls and 
•		The	system	of	internal	controls	provision,	which	imposes	
requirements on public companies to implement stringent accounting and financial controls.
To continually improve on our ability to adhere to all provisions 
of the FCPA, we implemented, in April 2007, the International 
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Corporate Procedure. This procedure establishes anti-bribery standards and processes designed to support compliance with the FCPA, as well as 
local anti-bribery laws. 
Pfizer also developed an implementation platform to  
help local teams train colleagues and adopt local procedures. This platform is divided into 12 separate sections, which 
covers such things as third-party transactions and consultancy agreements to gifts, hospitality, international 
meeting support and site visits, to educational grants, 
investigator-initiated research grants, charitable contributions and political contributions.
To support compliance even further, the company has also 
established the following tools and systems:
•			 A	compliance	hotline	in	70	countries
•		 Global	compliance	liaisons	in	all	markets
•				Training	for	all	colleagues,	with	materials	available	  
in 45 languages 
•				Auditing	procedures	for	all	sales	and	marketing	programs.
Evaluating Corporate Regulatory Compliance
To maintain and enhance the value of our internal audit activities—and to make sure the company is able to identify 
and evaluate any potential gaps in the overall status of 
Pfizer’s compliance systems—the Legal Division brought four Regulatory Compliance Audit functions together under 
a single umbrella and redesigned the audit process. The 
new organization, called Corporate Regulatory Compliance, identifies audit targets and deploys audit resources based on 
risk analysis, and assesses systems that support compliance. 
The functional audit groups that comprise Corporate 
Regulatory Compliance are Environment, Health and Safety Compliance Assurance, Corporate Quality Assurance, 
Research and Development Oversight, and Research Quality Assurance.
gOvernance	&	cOmPliancePfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 78 gOvernance	&	cOmPliance“ To understand the call for 
thoughtfulness on the subject of corporate governance, 
we need only recognize that, 
although the basic function of the Board—overseeing the company and mediating 
between investors and 
management—remains unchanged over recent decades, there has been a climate change in thinking 
in the environment of the 
boardroom, and a heightened awareness of the importance of accountability.”
 C oN S TA N C e  J .  H o r Ne r  
LeAd iNdePeNdeNT direCTor
Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 79 aWarDs an D reCogni Tion
Rated the top company in our peer group  
by Governance Metrics International, a  
New York-based research firm that provides 
corporate governance ratings for almost 4,000 public companies worldwide (April 2007). 
gOvernance	&	cOmPlianceFROM LEFT TO RIGHT :
FIRST ROW
Dennis A. Ausiello, M.D. 
Physician-in-Chief 
Massachusetts General Hospital
Michael S. Brown, M.D.
Distinguished Chair, Biomedical Sciences,  Regental Professor, University of Texas  
Southwestern Medical Center
M. Anthony Burns
Chairman Emeritus,  
Ryder System, Inc.
SECOND ROW
Robert N. Burt
Retired Chairman and CEO,  FMC Corporation
W. Don Cornwell
Chairman and CEO,  Granite Broadcasting Corporation
William H. Gray III
Chairman,  Amani Group
THIRD ROW
William R. Howell
Chairman Emeritus,  J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
Jeffrey B. Kindler
Chairman of the Board and  Chief Executive Officer, Pfizer Inc
George A. Lorch
Chairman Emeritus,  Armstrong Holdings, Inc.
FOURTH ROW
Dana G. Mead, Ph.D. 
Chairman,  MIT Corporation
William C. Steere, Jr. 
Chairman of the Board Emeritus,  Pfizer IncPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 80
SALES AND 
MARKETINGPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 81 Pfizer is committed to responsible Sales and 
Marketing practices that address physician and 
patient needs by providing full and accurate 
information about our medicines. Sales and Marketing practices were at the forefront of 
the change process at Pfizer in 2006 and 
2007. Changes that were implemented include endorsing and implementing guidelines for 
prescription medicine advertising, committing 
to and rolling out a global code of conduct on interactions with healthcare professionals, and 
reducing staff to better align with physician need. 
We reinforce our commitment with ongoing training, monitoring and compliance with all 
healthcare ethics, law and regulation. 
2006/2007 key aCT ions
Ranked Number One overall in the US industry 
in 2007 by physicians and customers for an 
unprecedented 12th consecutive year.
Rolled out a code of conduct on interactions 
with healthcare professionals in 45 languages 
in more than 100 countries.Implemented guidelines for more beneficial 
prescription medicine advertising.
Launched PfizerPro website, a one-stop 
resource information site for healthcare professionals on Pfizer’s products ranging 
from pipeline to post-marketing studies.
SaleS	 anD	marketing82 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportRanking Number One for  
12 Consecutive Years
For an unprecedented 12th consecutive year, physicians and customers in 2007 ranked Pfizer’s US sales force 
Number One overall in the industry, according to an 
annual survey conducted by Verispan, a pharmaceutical research firm.
Pfizer’s US sales force was named the best by 10 
specialties and by nurse-practitioners and physician’s assistants. Categories included quality, familiarity and 
physician specialty. Specialties giving top scores to Pfizer’s 
field force included Urology, Internal Medicine, General Practitioners, Cardiology and Orthopedic Surgery. The 
company was among the top three in 15 specialties—the best 
in the industry.
This recognition reflects Pfizer’s commitment to its 
customers and healthcare providers, and to consistently deliver against our goal to provide disease and product knowledge and support the value of our current medicines 
and newly available therapies.
SaleS	 anD	marketingAdvancing a Track Record in Training
Our ability to consistently rank Number One is rooted in our 
long track record in professional development throughout 
each sales colleague’s career. We focus our training on 
product knowledge, different diseases, healthcare ethics and law, and field leader coaching. A primary objective of our 
sales force is to provide physicians with accurate medical and 
product information, including all available data on benefits and risks, so physicians can make more informed treatment 
decisions. All members of the sales force are expected to 
know the medical foundation of diseases and treatments as well as the latest research findings on Pfizer and competitors’ 
products. 
Self-study, instructor-led, classroom style and on-the-job 
courses are offered. Specific healthcare law compliance, including effective documentation, is a major part of the 
training for every sales colleague and sales manager around the world at Pfizer. Colleagues are required to take an online 
training course and pass a test on ethics and compliance 
every year.
Looking for new ways to interact with US 
healthcare professionals, Pfizer set out to totally 
revamp its web-based approach for healthcare providers. Pfizer for Professionals (PfizerPro), 
Pfizer’s new one-stop shop for healthcare 
professionals, is an innovative online resource that not only communicates to providers about 
inline products and patient education but also 
about the company’s pipeline, post-marketing studies and more. 
 
www.pfizerpro.com/content/home.jspPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 83 SaleS	 anD	marketingImplementing a Global Marketing  
Code of Conduct
In 2006 we rolled out the Pfizer Global Policy on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals throughout Pfizer. This policy 
incorporates common legal and ethical standards from many 
of Pfizer’s major markets, including the US and Europe, and applies them to every country in which we operate. 
The policy, written in 45 languages, provides specific 
guidelines on appropriate behavior for Pfizer colleagues who have direct contact with physicians and other healthcare 
professionals. It covers such topics as the guidelines for 
Pfizer-hosted educational or promotional meetings, medical communications, marketing activities, confidentiality of patient 
data, and use of giveaway items. 
Sales professionals, in particular, are required to complete 
and pass a self-study course on the policy. In Sales, the policy was rolled out through a process coordinated by the Sales 
Leadership and Compliance Senior Sales Management which was responsible for completion of the training and monitoring.
Restructuring the Sales Force
In 2006, we reduced the size of our sales force in the US by 20 percent, and management by up to 30 percent, with similar 
cuts in Europe and other parts of the world. The restructuring 
was undertaken to better align Pfizer with physician needs and other changes in the marketplace—changing products 
and services, and changing stakeholder expectations—to 
become a better partner with healthcare professionals.
The sales force was reorganized into four operating units 
focused on products, with a fifth focused on customers. The sales force became more entrepreneurial, increased its speed of decision-making in the field, and coordinated 
better with the Pfizer leadership team. As a result, physicians 
said they felt they had been heard and that their patients could be better served. In addition, we improved our internal 
efficiencies.We believe that responsible consumer advertising educates 
patients and is a critical conversation starter that results 
in life-changing diagnosis and treatment decisions. Data 
supports that consumers value the information provided by advertising that alerts them about potential health conditions 
and available treatment options. Not all advertising is relevant 
to all people, but it is of critical interest to those who suffer or are at risk for an advertised condition. Importantly, advertising 
motivates patients to seek additional information and to talk 
to their doctors, and it is only through consultation with a physician that a treatment can be evaluated and prescribed. 
We recognize that this type of communication reaches a 
broad audience and thus requires a responsible approach. To continuously improve the usefulness of this form of 
communication, we embarked on a series of changes over 
the past two years to make sure our prescription medicine advertising encourages patients to have appropriate 
conversations with their doctors, helps consumers understand 
the risks and benefits of prescription medicines, and motivates people to overcome significant barriers to better health.uniTeD sT aTes  
Delivering Beneficial Prescription Medicine Advertising
Implementing New Prescription Medicine Consumer Advertising Guidelines
In 2006 we committed to change some of our consumer 
advertising practices in the US by: 
•		Educating	physicians	about	our	new	medicines	for	
a minimum of at least six months prior to beginning consumer television and print advertising 
•		Submitting	all	new	television	ads	to	the	FDA	for	comment	 
in advance of airing 
•		Increasing	advertising	efforts	behind	disease	awareness	
and Pfizer Helpful Answers to provide more information  
on access to medicine (see pages 39, 48).
In 2007 we made the following changes:
•			 Lipitor
® advertising now reinforces the role of alternative 
treatments for high cholesterol, such as exercise and diet, 
and advises patients that physicians may recommend other 
treatment options
•				Print	campaigns	for	Lyrica®, Lipitor®, Zyrtec® and others 
include easy-to-read facts about risks, and all print ads 
include Pfizer Helpful Answers information
•				Our	advertising	now	promotes	disease	awareness,	
including awareness of heart health, overactive bladder and 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
•				Our newest Celebrex® commercial, previewed by the FDA, 
provides a broad context of the risk-benefit profiles of 
various prescription pain medications.
europe  
Aligning Customer Excellence
The ACE (Aligning Customer Excellence) Program in Europe, is a Pfizer initiative designed to align Pfizer Europe to  
stakeholder needs and interests in the European healthcare marketplace. It is based on a simple premise: it is no longer 
sufficient to discover, develop and deliver great medicines. We must also help to improve standards of care, support 
knowledgeable consumerism, rebuild physician autonomy to facilitate better health outcomes, focus pricing and access  on transparency and quality, and protect patient rights, among other endeavors. In practice, this means: 
•				Moving	from	treating	people	when	they're	sick	to	helping	keep	people	well
•				Re-empowering	physicians	and	patients	so	costs	are	not	the	only	factor	in	determining	health	decisions	
•				Working	with	stakeholders	to	find	efficient	and	effective	ways	to	spend	scarce	resources	more	wisely	
•				Validating	the	value	of	innovative	medicines	to	society	by	changing	the	focus	from	the	cost	of	medicine	to	reducing	 
the burden of disease.
Through ACE, we have reallocated resources in Europe so we can interact more flexibly with a range of stakeholders  
who provide direct feedback that helps us address their concerns and interests. Patient groups, the public at large, payers, government and health officials, and physicians’ and nurses’ groups are all increasingly organized to advise us in  
this capacity.
84 Pfizer 2006-07 Corporate Responsibility Report SaleS	 anD	marketingPUBLIC POLICY
Pfizer 2006-07 Corporate Responsibility Report 85 86 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportWe believe that effective public policies can 
help create an environment in which innovative 
medicines are more effectively brought to 
market, and patients are able to receive the medicines they need. For this reason, we believe 
it’s our responsibility to engage in public policy 
discussions. This includes issues that affect regulatory guidelines, medicine safety, and a 
range of business practices around the world. 
We engage in ways that are transparent and consistent with our values.
2006/2007 key aCT ions
Worked with the Health Coverage Coalition for 
the Uninsured to develop recommendations 
to address the uninsured in the US healthcare 
system. 
Worked around the world to strengthen 
healthcare policies, increase patient access  
to care and protect against counterfeit medicines.
Requested US trade associations to disclose 
any portion of our dues used for political purposes. Expanded the Pfizer Europe Advisory Council, 
which includes a range of stakeholders who 
advise Pfizer on healthcare issues.
Supported proposed legislation with the 
Campaign for Smokefree Air to help make 
Michigan the 30th US state to protect citizens 
from exposure to secondhand smoke.
Supported increased access to medicines  
and safety monitoring in the US through policy 
advocacy.
PUblic	POlicyPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 87 Contributing to the  
Political debate
Public policies—on such issues as access 
to medicine, the future of Medicare, illegal 
importation and intellectual property 
protections—have enormous impact on our ability to meet patient needs and 
create shareholder value. For this reason 
we actively participate in public policy discussions, sharing our knowledge about 
healthcare, global public health, disease 
prevention and health education, and contributing ideas about improving efficiency 
and effectiveness.
we strongly believe in contributing to 
public policy activities in ways that are 
appropriate, ethical and transparent.  This approach is applied globally, wherever 
we engage with governments, private or 
public institutions.Public Policy in the United States
Different parts of the world face different public policy issues based on their healthcare systems, markets and economic 
strengths. 
In the US, for example, we participate in one of the most 
heavily regulated industries, and comply with all federal and state lobbying registration and disclosure laws. We 
demonstrate transparency by publicly disclosing on our website our corporate political contributions and employee 
Political Action Committee contributions. In addition, we have 
agreed to disclose any portion of our trade association dues that are used for political purposes.
To access Pfizer’s Political Action Report, visit www.pfizer.
com/responsibility/lobbying_and_political_contributions.js p.
PUblic	POlicy88 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportsupporting Health reform 
Pfizer is part of a larger healthcare system in the US. We are 
working along with other companies to help make policy 
reforms that strengthen the current system, improve quality and stabilize escalating healthcare costs. Here are some 
primary examples: 
FDA Revitalization Act (FDARA) 
This legislation is an expansion of the reauthorization of the 
Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA), a law requiring the industry to pay fees to the FDA in return for predictable 
regulatory review times and processes. With this special 
funding, the FDA has been able to double its review staff and bring median review times for new drug applications down by 
about half—to allow for a 10-month review cycle (six months 
for priority applications). User fees were first established in 1992, then re-enacted every five years. 
User fees make up 42.5 percent of the FDA’s Center 
for Drug Evaluation and Research budget—with Congress 
appropriating $298 million and the FDA collecting $220 million 
from industry. The user fee system has been criticized for two reasons: the potential or perceived impact of user fees on the 
FDA’s impartiality, and the fact that the fees are earmarked for 
new drug application reviews rather than for general activities or post-marketing safety work. FDARA, however, also 
includes provisions for drug safety legislation and pediatrics, 
specifically the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Improvement Act. 
Based on recent negotiations with the pharmaceutical 
industry, Congress will increase user fees for new drug applications, to keep drug review targets at 10 months. The 
FDA can use a substantial part of the fees for post-marketing 
drug safety and pharmacovigilance efforts, as well as research on new drug safety tools. This is the most comprehensive 
reform of the FDA in the past decade and Pfizer is actively 
supportive of this important legislation. 
Medicare
In December 2003, the US Congress passed, and President George W. Bush signed into law, the Medicare Modernization 
Act (MMA) which, for the first time, provided prescription 
drug coverage for American seniors and people with disabilities, called Medicare Part D. Pfizer applauds the 
Federal government for recognizing that a healthier society is 
achievable by addressing disease and sickness prevention. 
Medicare Part D is a significant step towards ensuring that 
the country’s senior and disabled patient populations have affordable access to the medicines they need to live longer healthy rather than live longer sick. Without medicine, they pay 
more for hospitalizations and end-stage disease treatment. There is considerable evidence that the program is working 
even better than initially expected, by giving Medicare 
recipients access to innovative medications at reasonable 
prices. Recent estimates show that beneficiaries will save an 
average of $1,200 a year, while millions of low-income and seriously ill patients will each save thousands more. One of 
the reasons for this success is competition. The different 
plans offered by different insurance companies compete on premiums and on access to the best, most-commonly-used 
medicines.
With this successful implementation, Pfizer continues to 
support the roll-out of the Part D benefit. Over 90 percent of America’s senior citizens and younger people with disabilities 
now have prescription drug coverage due to the new Medicare prescription drug program. We partner with both government 
and community groups to provide education and assistance 
and help improve access to medicines for seniors. 
Drug Importation 
Prescription drug importation occurs when foreign pharmacies and traders ship medicines, which may or may not be 
approved for use in other countries, into the US for sale to 
American consumers. Over the past several years, there have been a number of legislative proposals to amend current 
health and safety laws so distributors can import prescription 
medicines from other countries into the US, or allow individuals to purchase medications directly from pharmacies 
in other countries. Although importation may sound appealing, 
it presents real risks to patients and there is no guarantee that the imported pharmaceuticals would be safe. Federal law on 
prescription drug imports reflects well-documented concerns 
about the safety of imported medicines, and the risk that many of these drugs will be unapproved, adulterated, contaminated, 
or counterfeit (see page 56 for more on counterfeit medicines). 
Many drugs that consumers believe are coming from Canadian pharmacies actually come from other countries, 
where the supply chain may not be secure. If the US 
government were to allow large-scale, systematic importation, several federal agencies believe that safety problems would 
only get worse.
Importation not only creates safety risks, it does so 
without any guarantee of meaningful off-setting cost savings. It also threatens innovation and the future development of 
new medicines. Because foreign governments mandate discounted drug prices, the US market bears more of the 
costs of biomedical research. If markets are unwilling to pay 
for innovation, the flow of new, innovative medicines will be affected. To help solve this problem, Pfizer is working 
hard to find long-term, sustainable solutions to improve the 
affordability of medicines in the US without requiring patients to incur safety risks from importation.
PUblic	POlicyPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 89 Working to Expand Health Insurance Coverage          
The problem of the uninsured plagues the American 
healthcare system, with approximately 47 million Americans lacking health coverage. Progress on 
the issue, however, has been stymied by the vastly 
different approaches of various stakeholders. But now there is a change.
For the past two years, Pfizer has participated in a 
diverse coalition of 16 groups including healthcare 
providers, trade associations and activist groups determined to rethink the issue and lay out a path for 
progress. Together the groups developed consensus 
recommendations for covering a significant number of the uninsured and formed the Health Coverage 
Coalition for the Uninsured (HCCU) to move these 
recommendations forward. On January 18, 2007, the Coalition released an agreement which all the parties 
endorsed. 
The HCCU agreed to certain key principles: 
1  Making coverage available to those who could  
least afford it 
2  Relying upon incentives and voluntary approaches 
3    Building on the employer-based system and  not weakening incentives for employers to provide 
coverage 
4    Using a combination of public and private 
approaches to expand coverage 
5   Recognizing the budget challenge facing most 
states and 
6    Recognizing the importance of consumer outreach and education on health coverage options.
The HCCU’s recommendations advocate coverage  expansion for the uninsured occurring in two phases.  In Phase I, the focus would be on children. In Phase 
II, the key recommendations are to eliminate family 
status as an eligibility requirement, and to give states an option to expand coverage to all adults 
with incomes under the federal poverty level. In both 
phases, the recommendations represent a balance of public- and private-sector options. 
We are also working with the Coalition to Advance 
Health Reform.Supporting Legislation for Smokefree Air
Pfizer supports legislation to eliminate the hazards of 
secondhand smoke from the workplace, and other public places. We joined the Campaign for Smokefree Air (CSA),  
a grassroots coalition, to advance this cause for prevention 
and wellness. 
Our partnership with the CSA aims to help make Michigan 
the 30
th state to protect its workers from deadly exposure 
to secondhand smoke. As a member of the CSA’s Steering 
Committee, we are also the first and only pharmaceutical 
company actively participating in this effort.
Secondhand smoke causes severe health repercussions. 
Michigan absorbs approximately $3.4 billion a year in related productivity losses and spends, through Medicaid, $1.04 billion to cover health costs associated with smoking. These 
are some of the reasons why 63 percent of Michigan’s 
registered voters support a new state law to ensure smokefree workplaces, restaurants and bars. With such support, CSA 
is aggressively pushing for the passage of Senate Bills 109 
and 110 and House Bill 4163 to secure these smokefree environments. 
Partners in the 60-member CSA, along with Pfizer, include 
the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, 
the American Lung Association of Michigan, the Michigan 
State Medical Society, the Michigan Health and Hospital 
Association, among other medical provider organizations and health advocacy groups.
PUblic	POlicy90 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportStrengthening Intellectual Property Protection
We believe that appropriate incentives for biomedical 
innovation fuel the discovery and development of new cures 
and treatments. That’s what the track record shows. 
The research-based pharmaceutical industry depends 
on patent rights because they provide needed incentives to make expensive, high-risk investments in biomedical discovery and development. This is where new medicines 
come from. It costs on average about $800 million to discover, 
develop and manufacture one approved medicine before it enters the market, with no guarantee of success. Patents 
guarantee a limited period of exclusive marketing rights for 
approved medicines in order to earn a fair return on such a large investment. In short, patent protection is the only proven 
system of bringing new medicines to society in a timely 
manner. 
This is why we are helping emerging markets strengthen 
their regulatory systems, including intellectual property rights protection. We believe that strong patent laws, when balanced with reasonable times of exclusive marketing rights, lead to 
more medicines and, ultimately, less disease. 
There is a view that patent rights limit access to medicines 
because they prohibit the unauthorized manufacture and sale of a patented medicine. We disagree that patents are a 
primary cause of limited access to medicines. The fact is,  
90 percent of the World Health Organization’s List of Essential 
Medicines are no longer patented and still do not reach 
the people who need them. Further, these medicines were originally discovered and developed by private industry.  
As noted in this report, we’re working actively to form public-
private partnerships to improve access to medicines around the world.Right to Privacy for Patient Information and PhysiciansThe right to privacy is fundamental, but it’s being challenged 
as our society becomes more reliant on electronic forms of 
communication and information technology.
That’s why electronic prescribing, when physicians use 
electronic methods to send prescriptions to pharmacies and hospitals, is being scrutinized so carefully. We believe that electronic prescribing, done with proper safeguards, is an 
increasingly valuable and important tool for protecting patient 
safety, enhancing patient treatment and improving overall efficiency. We believe the following guidelines should apply:
•				Patient	and	physician	needs	should	drive	the	design	of	 
e-prescribing tools that will be used at the point of care.  
A market-driven approach will best assure the adoption of systems aligned with the provision of quality care.
•				E-prescribing	should	be	provided	through	a	neutral	and	
open platform and conform to prevailing quality and technical standards. It should not be designed to advance 
the commercial interest of any particular participant to the 
potential detriment of patient care.
•		 Patient	privacy	must	be	protected.
•				All	messages	transmitted	to	physicians	and	their	staffs	
through e-prescribing systems must be sourced, accurate, and fact-based.
•				E-prescribing	technologies	should	support	greater	access	
to data for better clinical decision-making, including alerts to adverse events and access to formulary information. 
Such information should not be selectively or competitively 
pushed to the physician, and the distribution of such information must not diminish the patient’s right to appeal.
•				E-prescribing	must	not	subvert	the	protections	offered	to	
patients in other areas of Medicare.
PUblic	POlicyPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 91 Public Policy in Europe
New Approaches to Healthcare 
In Europe we are changing how we embed the needs of our 
stakeholders into the value Pfizer provides them—not only 
through medical and scientific value, but by also integrating social value. 
In practical terms, we are achieving this by changing how 
we communicate and partner with our stakeholders, which, in turn, affects how we operate. We call this “customer 
facing.” For a description of how we implement this in Sales 
and Marketing through ACE (Aligning Customer Excellence), please see page 84.
Our transformation is supported by hiring a far more 
diverse colleague base that comes from the array of social interests in healthcare: patients, pharmacists, payers, 
government decision-makers, policymakers, economists 
and NGOs. By allocating our resources to hiring people with these backgrounds, we are embedding the thinking, culture 
and needs of the groups from which they come. Below, and 
elsewhere in this report, are some results of our Stakeholder Model approach (see pages 10-11):
Pfizer Europe Advisory Council 
Pfizer Europe expanded the Europe Advisory Council, which 
meets regularly with our management on commercial goals.  
To better serve patients, we included diverse social and economic interests, in addition to the medical and scientific 
interests, associated with particular medicines. For example, 
for Champix
®, our smoking cessation medicine, we included 
diverse experts from international organizations, Ministries 
of Health, patients, trade unions and others, in addition 
to medical and scientific experts. Our understanding of how Champix
® would serve patients better was enhanced, 
shifting us from an insular approach to a stakeholder-focused 
approach. Healthy Ageing Pfizer Europe has established a “Healthy Ageing” Platform to 
guide “partnering and communicating differently” that aligns with the public’s acknowledged desire for staying well. Active 
work with the EU Commission on a Resolution of “Active and 
Healthy Ageing” resulted in a partnership toward Healthcare Systems Reform programs. For example:
•	 The Luxembourg Sustainable Health Financing Studies—
The Cox Report (named for former President of the  
EU Parliament, Pat Cox)—have been received by the EU Health Commission 
•		The Alliance for Health and The Future works in the EU 
to facilitate reforms on Health as an Investment to keep people as productive members of society.
PUblic	POlicyaWarDs an D reCogni Tion
A Pfizer Germany colleague was awarded  
the Patient Rights Award 2007 by PMI, 
publisher of several pharmaceutical 
periodicals, for outstanding work with patient groups to strengthen patient participation  
and patients’ rights.92 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportPublic Policy Around the World
We are working hard to address public policy challenges 
and opportunities around the world. In partnering with 
governments, communities and many other stakeholders 
we’re committed to working towards policies and programs that will help to bring more medicines to more patients  
more quickly.israel   
Educating for Intellectual Property Rights 
In recent years, knowledge-based industries, including 
the innovative pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
sectors, have grown in Israel. However, a relatively 
lax environment on enforcing intellectual property rights (IPR) has had a dampening effect on overseas 
investment in Israeli companies. 
To raise awareness of this issue, the Business Ethics 
Center of Jerusalem and Pfizer Israel initiated the “Educating for Intellectual Property Rights” program, in 
partnership with the Government of Israel and the US Embassy in Tel Aviv. 
 In February 2004, the program was introduced into 
Israeli high schools, and now, over 1,000 teachers have 
received it. The program has been produced in Hebrew, 
Arabic and English, and several hundred lead teachers have undergone special teacher-training courses.
The IPR program includes a comprehensive teacher’s 
guide covering the different forms of intellectual property, such as patent, copyright, design, reputation 
and trademarks; and also discusses cyberspace and 
intellectual property rights. 
The guide also suggests activities to engage 
students, such as discussing ethical dilemmas relating to examples of common abuse of IPR, and reading passages about famous inventors that underscore the 
importance of patenting discoveries. 
THailanD  
Protecting Patients from Counterfeit 
Medicines 
Pfizer Thailand has been working with government departments, local enforcement agencies and other 
stakeholders to raise awareness and strengthen 
collaboration in actions against counterfeit medicines. A recent anti-counterfeiting workshop attracted strong 
attendance and media interest, and helped facilitate 
improved communication and commitments to address the dangers of counterfeit medicines. The protection 
of consumers from counterfeit medicines and the 
provision of access to quality medicines is critical and Pfizer Thailand is working hard with key stakeholders 
to enhance coordination and successful action on this 
important issue.
PUblic	POlicysouTH afriCa  
Reducing Health Disparities Through 
Social Health Insurance 
This program is a partnership between the South African government, the pharmaceutical industry and 
the medical scheme (insurance) industry to address the 
health disparities in the country. The goal of the program is to increase the number of people in private medical 
schemes, thereby giving them access to newer health 
technologies and products at lower prices. In addition, this program aims to significantly reduce the burden on 
the under-resourced public healthcare system.  
The establishment of medical schemes for low-income beneficiaries is considered to be a significant step 
towards the achievement of Social Health Insurance 
in South Africa. Medical schemes will charge lower premiums and, in turn, the pharmaceutical industry will 
subsidize drug prices. The subsidy will be refunded  
to the medical scheme to allow the scheme to reimburse newer, better medicines for low-income patients.  
A low-income medical scheme proposal has moved to 
Cabinet, as recommended by industry, but is not yet approved.kenya   
Fighting Counterfeits to Protect Patients 
Pfizer has been working closely with the Kenya 
Association of the Pharmaceutical Industry (KAPI) to 
counter the illegal trade of pharmaceuticals, mostly 
counterfeit products, which were mainly hidden under the guise of parallel imports. Through our efforts, 
regulators have established strict regulations on the 
parallel importation of pharmaceuticals. This effort has had a positive impact on patients since the influx of 
counterfeits has been contained to some extent.Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 93 PUblic	POlicyrepubliC of korea 
Partnering in Research and Development 
We recently announced enhancements to our 
research and development activities in South Korea, 
in partnerships with the Korean Ministry of Health and 
Welfare and the Korean Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology. The latest of many valuable Pfizer 
collaborations throughout Asia, these commitments 
include a range of initiatives with government, academic and biomedical institutions, and medical 
centers, in Korea, in the common pursuit of helping 
Koreans lead longer, healthier and happier lives. Our commitments mark the single largest foreign research 
and development investment attracted by Korea.
ausTralia 
Contributing and Consulting on  
PBS Reforms 
The Australian government has recently introduced important reforms to its Pharmaceutical Benefits 
Scheme (PBS) which provides medicines to all 
Australians. The reforms were designed to give Australians continued access to new and innovative 
medicines while ensuring the PBS remains sustainable 
into the future. Pfizer Australia, through the industry body Medicines Australia, worked together with the 
government and other stakeholders in developing the 
reforms and in consulting with patients. The Health Minister noted this contribution in Parliament when 
he stated: “I would like to thank the industry for their 
constructive work with the Government through periods of consultation and negotiation.”Japan 
Supporting Positive Regulatory Reform 
Pfizer is supporting Japan’s Pharmaceutical and Medical 
Devices Agency (PMDA) in its stated goal to address 
and improve the approval time for medicines in Japan.  
It is important that the PMDA be a world-class regulatory agency and Pfizer Japan, together with industry, is 
working with partners in government, providing 
technical support, raising awareness in connection with resourcing, and contributing to performance goal 
setting. These measures will help to bring more new 
medicines to Japanese patients more quickly.
egypT   
Bringing Innovation to Patients Faster 
Pfizer has been working closely with the newly 
appointed Health Minister of Egypt to support his 
regulatory reform efforts. Pfizer was a member of the 
Minister’s committee which was formed to provide recommendations to ensure the transparency of the 
regulatory system. As a result, he issued a Ministerial 
Decree in 2006 designed to facilitate fast registration  of innovative medicines and bring new products to 
market more quickly. As a result of his appointment  
and other trends, healthcare reform has become a  top government priority.94 Pfizer 2006-07 Corporate Responsibility Report PUblic	POlicyIn our view, “sustainability” in the 
pharmaceutical sector goes beyond a full 
pipeline, good supply chain management  
and environmental renewal. At Pfizer, we ask: “How can we help meet the health needs  
of people today, without compromising our 
ability to meet the health needs of people tomorrow?”
We believe the most workable answer lies in our dual approach:
•	 Sustainable	enterprise—investing	in	the	business	
•		Sustainable	development—investing	in	the	community.
Sustainable enterprise includes establishing research 
partnership agreements, local manufacturing capabilities, and 
R&D centers to discover and develop new medicines.  It also means supporting intellectual property rights so we and 
other innovators can help meet the health needs of people 
tomorrow. 
Sustainable development includes working with local 
government to understand their health priorities and then forming partnerships to meet those needs by improving disease awareness, providing needed treatment and building 
healthcare capacity. 
Pfizer China is a good example of how our approach to 
sustainability works. After entering the market in 1984, we now have a presence in more than 50 cities, with 2,100 employees. 
We have introduced over 40 medicines to China and have four state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities in Dalian, Suzhou 
and Wuxi. In 2005 we opened an R&D center in Shanghai, 
and today we have public health programs in six disease areas ranging from HIV/AIDS to hypertension. In 2006, Pfizer 
China was ranked by Forbes magazine as one of the most 
philanthropic multinational companies. Following are examples of how Pfizer China exemplifies sustainability. Pfizer’s Approach to Sustainability: A Case Study in China
“ The close partnership between  
Pfizer and our city has truly blossomed 
in the past decade. Over this period, 
our partnership has contributed both 
to Shanghai’s development and to the 
health of our citizens. Looking ahead,  
we see our association growing  
stronger and deeper.”
— Han zHeng, mayor of sHangHai95 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report PUblic	POlicySustainable Development:  
Investing in the Community
HIV/AIDS Pfizer China has responded to the AIDS epidemic 
in China by committing itself to a slate of HIV/AIDS initiatives, 
from training healthcare professionals to promoting increased 
awareness and education about HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programs. Pfizer also became the first multinational 
pharmaceutical company in China to issue an HIV/AIDS 
Workplace Policy that ensures a work environment free from harassment and discrimination for employees living with HIV/
AIDS.
Hypertension In November 2006, Pfizer began working with 
Shanghai’s Center for Disease Prevention and Control to help 
manage and reverse hypertension and related cardiovascular risk factors. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of 
death and disease burden in urban centers in China. The 
goal is to fully utilize the resources and infrastructure of local hospitals to improve diagnosis and disease management, 
as well as provide education and training to improve skills at 
selected hospitals. 
Stress Management In March 2006, Pfizer China and Song 
Jiang University Town launched a joint effort called the Mental 
Health and Stress Management Training Project. The project 
is designed to raise awareness about mental disorders among 
university faculty, so they can help recognize and prevent such disorders among their students. The project also offers 
free psychological counseling to the tens of thousands of 
students at the eight colleges within the university. 
Smoking Cessation China, with approximately 350 million 
smokers, produces and consumes more cigarettes than any 
other country in the world. Pfizer China hopes to challenge 
this trend by conducting a series of community awareness 
and education programs, including a three-year smoking cessation initiative at Peking University called “Staying Away 
from Tobacco for a Healthy Life.” 
Cataracts Cataracts are one of the leading causes of 
blindness in China. Pfizer provides support to Lifeline Express, 
a unique traveling eye hospital train that has provided more 
than 60,000 free operations to cataract patients in frontier 
and poverty-stricken areas. In 2003, Pfizer China donated 
nearly 1,100 artificial lenses to help more than 1,300 cataract patients regain their sight. Pfizer China also helped Lifeline 
Express host academic exchanges in rural China, to train local 
ophthalmologists and to bring local doctors to Hong Kong and Guangdong for formal training. Sustainable Enterprise:  Investing in the Business
Manufacturing Pfizer Suzhou, our animal health products 
facility, is expanding to become an advanced, large-scale, 
international manufacturing and distribution center. It employs 
advanced manufacturing equipment and testing technology to produce a variety of veterinary and agricultural antibiotic 
formulations. When complete, manufacturing capacity will 
increase from 800 to 7,000 tons, and products manufactured in Suzhou will be exported to 55 countries around the world. 
Research & Development In 2005, Pfizer opened a state-of-
the-art Research and Development Center in Shanghai. The 
Center provides drug development support capabilities and 
biometric expertise to China and the Asian region. The Center supports study design, data management and statistical 
analysis for global clinical trials, while also training local 
Pfizer colleagues in internationally-recognized Good Clinical Practice standards. 
Supply Chain Responsibility Pfizer sources a number  
of raw materials and active pharmaceutical ingredients  
from suppliers in China, and this business is growing.  
To assure responsible practices with regard to safety and  the environment, we have an active supplier review program.  
In 2006, reviews were done at 22 supplier facilities in China. 
Reviews involve onsite visits by Pfizer environmental and safety experts, typically for two days. In addition, Pfizer has 
provided training and coaching to key suppliers regarding 
environment and safety management. Efforts included  a five-day training program, in November 2006, given to  
30 managers and engineers from six suppliers on industrial 
hygiene and process safety. 
Anti-Counterfeiting In March 2007, Pfizer launched a new 
anti-counterfeiting color-changing logo for Viagra
® in China 
on Consumer Rights Protection Day, with plans to replace 
the current laser anti-counterfeiting label globally. This effort 
reflects Pfizer’s commitment to patient safety through the application of new technologies. 
Working with Government In October 2006, the Mayor of 
Shanghai, Han Zheng, reaffirmed the city’s strong partnership 
with Pfizer during the first Pfizer Board of Directors meeting 
held in Shanghai. “The close partnership between Pfizer and our city has truly blossomed in the past decade,” the Mayor 
said. “Over this period our partnership has contributed both 
to Shanghai’s development and to the health of our citizens. Looking ahead, we see our association growing stronger and 
deeper.”96 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report
EMPLOYEESPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 97 eMPLoYeeSMaking Pfizer a great place to work is a key 
strategic priority in 2007. Engaged employees 
are essential to discovering and developing 
new medicines, and serving the needs of all our stakeholders. They are essential to our 
success. That’s why we’re developing a company 
culture that drives business performance and innovation through a broad diversity of talent and 
views—where colleagues build their careers, are 
empowered to make decisions, have an impact, and are rewarded for achieving business results. 
2006/2007 key aCT ions
Managed significant organizational changes 
with transparency and emphasis on affected 
colleagues.
Developed a strategic plan endorsed  
by the Board of Directors to expand Pfizer’s 
global diversity and inclusion.
Expanded Pfizer’s employee health-
improvement program, which is based  
on prevention, early diagnosis and  
timely treatment.Expanded CEO and senior management 
engagement with colleagues, including a 
global CEO-Colleague Advisory Committee  
to improve the flow of ideas.
Eliminated dozens of management  
committees to push decision-making down 
into the organization. 98 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report eMPLoYeeSDeveloping Talent and Employee Engagement
Meaningful work, an inclusive environment and effective 
leadership—these are some of the primary drivers of 
“colleague engagement,” the commitment of employees to 
give their best efforts, stay with Pfizer and say they are proud to do so. 
We assessed colleague engagement within certain 
divisions in 2006 and identified a number of key challenges and opportunities.
These included the need for:•				Regular,	clear	and	more	direct	communications	during	 
a time of change
•		 Support	from	managers	through	change
•			 Focus	on	retaining	and	developing	committed	employees	
•			 Performance-based	incentives	and	career	development.
We addressed some of these challenges quickly with new solutions. Other challenges we addressed by building on established programs as described throughout this section. 
In late 2007, we will begin an annual all-colleague survey of 
colleague engagement using the Gallup
® survey to assess our 
progress going forward.
Managing Pfizer’s Transformation 
Pfizer currently has 89,000 employees worldwide. In late  
2006 and early 2007, the company committed to reducing  
its workforce by approximately 10 percent of Pfizer’s worldwide employee base in line with evolving changes in  
the marketplace. 
Planning for Pfizer’s transformation began in early 2005 
with teams of colleagues in each division analyzing issues and priorities. As the pace increased in 2006 the challenges 
of leading change were met through a robust set of strategies including senior-level communications, colleague focus 
groups, and providing managers and colleagues with useful 
tools to help them deal with the unprecedented pace of change across the company. During this period, we launched 
several initiatives focused on strengthening supervisors’ 
skills in leading change, colleague retention and building colleague resilience. Leadership Education and Development Pfizer invests in the development of programs to educate 
and prepare those who supervise others, ensuring a pipeline 
of “ready now” leaders. The company provides core, common and critical leadership development resources for 
Pfizer leaders with a focus on behaviors such as sustaining 
performance, creating an inclusive environment, encouraging open discussion and debate, managing change, developing 
people, and aligning across Pfizer. Programs are based on a 
three-pronged development strategy that includes coaching, on-the-job experiences, and various learning opportunities. 
Between 2004 and 2006, 2,290 managers across the business 
graduated from these programs.
Divisional and Location Education and Training 
Most of the education and training at Pfizer is conducted at the business level, where specific quality, technical and 
research skills are required. For example, our global R&D 
organization conducted more than 50,000 instructor-led training classes and nearly 200,000 self-study events during 
2006. 
Another example is Pfizer’s partnership with the University 
of Michigan, where 160 high-potential R&D colleagues received executive leadership education in 2006. This program 
complemented a broad curriculum of personal, manager and leadership development offered at Pfizer R&D locations. 
Right First Time Training                                                     
More than 14,000 colleagues have received basic 
training taught by 1,000 trained colleagues to support 
a range of activities associated with “Right First 
Time”(RFT)—a multi-faceted initiative based on the philosophy that “good enough is not good enough.” 
Through RFT, tremendous value can be captured in 
improving work processes, primarily in manufacturing and supply chain, but also throughout the organization. 
RFT uses a number of tools, including the statistical 
techniques of Six Sigma methodology and Lean principles, which provide a systematic approach to 
identifying and eliminating waste through continuous 
improvement. Through these techniques we gain an in-depth understanding of how a process works, how and 
where it can be improved, and how to make necessary 
changes. 99 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report eMPLoYeeSDiversity and Inclusion is another key pillar of colleague 
engagement. Over the past few years, we have made 
improved progress in attracting diverse talent to the 
company—particularly at entry levels across our divisions. In addition to attracting diverse colleagues, time and effort 
is being focused on their development and engagement so 
talented colleagues advance to senior levels. The “traditional Pfizer mindset” or success profile is being expanded as well. 
This means certain jobs don’t have to be done by those who 
have always done them in the past. We are creating the type of environment in which all types of colleagues feel welcome 
and their ideas and contributions are valued.
In 2006, Pfizer’s Board of Directors endorsed a 
comprehensive strategic plan to expand the company’s culture of diversity and inclusion globally. This strategy is 
designed to attract, retain and develop the highest caliber talent in the world by creating and nurturing an environment 
that respects diversity and where all employees feel valued, 
respected and engaged. The plan revolves around the following platforms:
Leader Education and Accountability 
We will produce informed and engaged Pfizer leaders around 
the world who actively drive Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) progress and plans in their organizations. These leaders will 
ultimately be responsible for delivering specific agreed-upon 
results. 
Senior leader Engagement and Education is a key tenet of 
the Pfizer Diversity & Inclusion strategic framework. In 2006, 
the Worldwide D&I Office (WDIO) began development of a 
curriculum for Pfizer’s top senior business leaders—focusing on the critical role they play in creating and supporting an 
inclusive environment that optimizes individual and team 
performance across the entire organization. These senior leaders will be expected to embrace new behaviors, shape 
attitudes, and communicate messages that will help transform 
Pfizer’s organizational culture.
Pfizer business leaders are each committing the necessary 
resources to support and successfully implement their D&I plans. Each business unit has identified representatives on the D&I Worldwide Leadership Committee (WLC). This group 
meets regularly to provide executive level oversight, influence 
and governance for the company’s D&I strategic framework; serves an advisory body to the Pfizer Executive Leadership 
Team and the Worldwide Diversity & Inclusion Office; and 
works in collaboration with the Pfizer Board as appropriate. Divisions are also each identifying D&I Business Leads—
individuals charged with partnering with leaders and the WDIO 
to drive D&I plans throughout their organizations. Striving for Enterprise-Wide Diversity and Inclusion
Pfizer’s senior leader D&I Engagement and Education 
process launched in 2007 with the  introduction of  
a Leading Diversity and Inclusion (LDI) curriculum.  To date, over 500 of Pfizer’s top leaders have completed the first phase of this process with another 
200 scheduled to participate in 2007. Feedback has 
been positive on those sessions already held in the US, Europe and Japan. The LDI process involves 
two separate LDI Education Days delivered two to 
three months apart. Leaders will use the interim time between these two sessions to apply what they have 
learned to develop D&I action plans for their own 
organizations.Human Resources Processes 
We will review and examine select HR practices and 
processes to ensure that neither bias nor blocks to progress 
on inclusion exist and to create progress on inclusion and 
the creation of an environment which is perceived as fair, unbiased and welcoming. 
We are in the process of analyzing, identifying and addressing 
high-impact areas of opportunity across Pfizer, such as 
performance management, talent planning, compensation, and other processes that can be enhanced to create and 
support an inclusive environment.
One process currently being evaluated for efficacy is our 
Open Door policy, which permits any colleague to present ideas, concerns, questions, problems, or suggestions directly 
to any level of leadership within the Company, without fear of retaliation.
Business Maximization and Growth 
Pfizer’s D&I Worldwide Leadership Committee will work 
with business leaders to identify and lead efforts that demonstrate the business value of creating a diverse and 
inclusive environment. We will seek to partner with key 
external organizations to share our D&I vision, enhance Pfizer’s reputation and support our business goals. 
Our success demands that our business units reflect the 
widest variety of perspectives to respond to the accelerated 
changes in the marketplace and the needs of the diverse customers and patients we serve. The D&I Worldwide 
Leadership Committee will work to utilize the D&I process to 
support Pfizer’s business success.
Our external focus on D&I also applies to our suppliers, 
business partners, communities, and key external organizations to help drive our business results and share  our commitment and progress in the D&I process.eMPLoYeeS 100 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportDiversity and Inclusion Initiatives  
for Specific Groups or Communities
We have programs and initiatives for specific groups or communities who have been historically underrepresented  
in the US.
Some examples include: 
Advancing the Goals of the Latino Community
In October 2006, 120 Latino leaders from the United 
States and Puerto Rico met for an all-day conference, 
at New York headquarters, to explore such topics 
as recruitment, retention and advancement of Latino colleagues, the challenges and opportunities of 
targeting Latinos as a market, and Pfizer’s record of 
philanthropy in the Latino community. 
Promoting Women in Leadership
As part of its global women’s strategy, Pfizer continues 
to sponsor leadership development events for women 
around the globe, such as the Simmons Leadership 
Conference in the US and the Global Summit of Women, held in Berlin in 2007. Hundreds of Pfizer’s top women leaders participated in these sessions 
and Pfizer-specific events held in conjunction with the 
conferences. Plans are underway to bring together Pfizer’s top women leaders for a Pfizer Women’s 
Summit in 2008.Partnering with the GLBT Community 
The Human Rights Campaign (HRC) has recognized 
Pfizer’s internal and external efforts affecting the 
gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender (GLBT) 
community. Pfizer scored a perfect 100 on HRC’s Corporate Equality Index, an evaluation of how 
corporations treat their GLBT employees, consumers 
and investors. This marks the fourth consecutive year in which Pfizer has made the list, and the third 
consecutive year Pfizer attained a perfect score.Supporting Employees with Disabilities
Pfizer has been an active supporter of the rights of 
disabled people for decades, for both business and 
social reasons. We were recently honored by the 
National Business Disability Council for our 25 years  of active service.
We believe the workplace is an important 
environment in which to both tap into the talents of people with disabilities as well as build their skills.  
In the US, we do much more than simply comply with the mandates of the Americans with Disabilities Act. For example:
•		We	rebuilt	an	entire	lab	to	lower	workstations,	so	
scientists in wheelchairs are able to do the research 
they love without compromise.
•		We	have	physical	therapy	centers	at	several	of	our	
facilities because muscular-skeletal problems are 
the most common workplace disability. We conduct ergonomic assessments, so workstations can be 
reconfigured to offset repetitive stress.
•		In	2006	we	created	the	Disability	Networking	Group,	
which promotes professional opportunities for Pfizer 
colleagues, and those interested in becoming Pfizer 
colleagues, who have physical, developmental, and/or other disabilities.Establishing HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy
Pfizer is committed to its global policies on  
HIV/AIDS (established in November 2004) and the 
implementation of related programs. While specific 
programs may be site-based, to address local conditions, the overarching policy on HIV/AIDS applies 
to all employees of the company and its subsidiaries. 
The program covers non-discrimination, awareness, prevention, and health support programs.  
For more details about Pfizer’s HIV/AIDS policies,  
visit www.pfizer.com/responsibility/hiv_aids_workplace_policy.jsp.Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 101 eMPLoYeeSImproving Wellness
One way we are striving to live the health principles we 
promote as a company is through Healthy Pfizer, an 
integrated, comprehensive health-improvement program. 
Launched to our US colleagues and their families in June 2005 and in Puerto Rico in September 2006, the Healthy 
Pfizer program is designed to increase health awareness 
and support positive change based on the principles of prevention, early diagnosis and timely treatment. 
Healthy Pfizer’s personalized, easy-to-use tools, 
programming and services include a confidential, personalized web portal, onsite health screenings, a health risk assessment 
tool which includes a detailed report on individual risk factors 
and overall health, telephonic and onsite coaching programs designed to help participants reduce risk factors and manage 
chronic conditions, a 24/7 nurseline, and a physical activity 
program. 
To date:•				22,991	colleagues	have	completed	health	screenings	
conducted onsite at Pfizer facilities throughout the US and 
Puerto Rico
•				84	percent	of	colleagues	and	52	percent	of	dependents	
have completed the health risk assessment tool, the Health 
Questionnaire
•				41	percent	of	eligible	colleagues	and	28	percent	of	eligible	
dependents are enrolled in coaching programs to reduce 
health risk factors and
•				20	percent	of	eligible	colleagues	and	dependents	are	
enrolled in programs to help them better manage chronic 
conditions.
The program seeks to set a new standard in employer-
sponsored health programs that is best-in-class in usability, customer satisfaction and measurable health outcomes.Communicating Openly
Open dialogue between colleagues and senior management builds trust and improves performance, especially during 
periods of change. 
This is why our CEO and senior managers have launched 
a variety of ways to engage colleagues in interactive communication. In one program, called “On the Road,” 
leaders have been visiting and touring various Pfizer sites, hosting town hall meetings and conducting informal lunches 
with colleagues. Leaders have “gotten out of the office” and 
are spending significant time with the sales force and meeting community and state leaders. As a follow-up to these events, 
“Reports from the Road” are posted on our Intranet site. 
These are webcam dispatches in which the CEO shares his informal views on his trips around the company. 
Two-way communications between senior management 
and colleagues recently improved with the redesign of PfizerWorld, the company’s Intranet-based magazine. The 
site now features The Exchange, a forum through which 
members of the Executive Leadership Team speak about critical issues affecting the company—from the cancellation 
of the torcetrapib clinical trials (see page 27) to Pfizer’s 
reorganization. 
The Exchange serves as a portal for Pfizer leaders and 
colleagues to communicate with one another. Colleagues can also submit ideas directly to Chairman and CEO Jeff Kindler. He has received thousands of recommendations, questions 
and feedback on a range of issues.
As another example of new ways of communicating, in 
2007, Mr. Kindler created the first Pfizer Colleague Advisory Committee. This global panel of 15 employees, from all levels 
and divisions, will serve as a sounding board for the CEO and provide input and suggestions from our colleagues who 
interact directly with customers.
In September 2007, every Pfizer colleague in the 
world will participate in the Pfizer Colleague Engagement Survey and action planning. Pfizer utilizes the Gallup G2
® 
survey that measures the most significant drivers of colleague engagement and inclusion, which directly relate 
to productivity, retention and shareholder value. This process includes a confidential survey with the results provided at the 
supervisor level which form the basis for specific action plans 
to improve the work environment. It will also drive colleague engagement and a greater sense of inclusion and merit-based 
career advancement and rewards.102 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report eMPLoYeeSaWarDs an D reCogni Tion
Working Mother named Pfizer one of the  
100 Best Companies of 2006—the eighth time 
Pfizer was so honored.
Pfizer is one of 30 companies named to  
the National Association of Female Executives 
(NAFE) Top Companies for Executive Women 
list for 2007.
Nikkei Woman in Japan ranked Pfizer as 
among the top 100 companies for women  
in 2006.
Pfizer earned a perfect score on the Human 
Rights Campaign Corporate Equity Index for 
the third year in a row.
Urban League’s New York Chapter named 
Pfizer a 2007 “Champion of Diversity” for 
creating and sustaining an environment of 
inclusion.Eliminating Bureaucracy
Making Pfizer a great place to work includes creating a more 
agile, flexible and empowered organization to speed decision- 
making. Colleagues like to get things done. To that end, we 
have begun efforts to unleash the talent and potential of our colleagues by:
•				Eliminating	bureaucracy	and	reducing	management	
layers so that leaders are closer to their Pfizer teams and 
customers. We are in the midst of reducing the number of layers between the top and bottom of the organization 
from fourteen to eight. This reduction in layers is intended 
to not only bring leaders closer to customers and patients but will push decision-making down to increase speed and 
customer focus.
•				Giving	Pfizer	colleagues	more	freedom	to	make	decisions,	
be more creative, and have clearer accountability. As an 
example, we are in the process of extending the span 
of control of supervisors with the intent of empowering colleagues and allowing managers to focus on leading and 
developing their staffs.
We are also building a stronger performance-based culture 
by reviewing our compensation systems at all levels of the organization in 2007, so there is a more direct link between 
rewards, performance and total shareholder return. This will 
require improved performance planning and evaluation, as well as building talent at every level of the organization. Pfizer 
is building on its 2005 success of making compensation 
more transparent to colleagues by increasing the emphasis on business performance and increasing the differentiation of 
rewards relative to individual and team performance.MANUFACTURING /  
SUPPLY CHAIN
Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 103 
manUfactUring	/	SUPPly	chain 104 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report2006/2007 key aCT ions
Conducted more than 100 onsite reviews  
at the facilities of contract manufacturers  
and researchers, key suppliers, and 
outsourced logistic centers in 2006 to assure environment, health and safety (EHS) 
responsibility of our supply chain. 
Continued to build a supplier base that reflects 
the changing demographics of the consumer 
marketplace through a comprehensive 
Supplier Diversity program.
Expanded our Responsible Contracting 
initiative across all Pfizer divisions in the US.Pfizer is committed to assuring quality, safety 
and consistency in the manufacture of our human 
and animal health products, while making sure 
the actions of individuals and organizations within our supply chain are consistent with the highest 
standards of business and personal ethics.
Systematically Improving Quality
Quality in everything we do is critical because our products 
help people lead healthier lives. Today, every major country or 
region has legal requirements that apply to Pfizer products, 
including sophisticated standards of Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) against which regulatory agencies examine all 
pharmaceutical companies. These efforts are supported by a 
number of corporate functions within our Legal Division.
Our Corporate Regulatory Compliance (CRC) organization, 
with experts across the globe, verifies compliance through periodic audits of Pfizer and selected contractor sites, as well as through measures of quality performance. A risk-based 
analysis of each site, which considers products, activities, 
technology, and compliance history, determines the frequency and duration of audits. Quality performance measures include 
such things as number of recalls and compliance incidents 
and events. 
These measures and audit results are reviewed by 
business unit management and may be shared with our Chief Compliance Officer or raised for discussion at our Corporate Compliance Committee meetings. 
Our Right First Time strategy for manufacturing is 
making a significant contribution to quality assurance and risk mitigation, and reflects our commitment to quality in 
everything we do. Right First Time promotes the use of 
innovative technologies and a set of tools that will improve process understanding and reduce variability in manufacturing 
operations. Manufacturing and CRC colleagues around the 
world are extensively trained in the use of Right First Time 
technology and tools and have made significant improvement 
in the quality of our processes and products.manUfactUring	/	SUPPly	chain Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 105 Another essential factor in maintaining GMP compliance 
is understanding and influencing ever-changing regulatory 
expectations. Our regulatory monitoring functions gather, 
evaluate and disseminate emerging regulations and guidance to the Pfizer community. We have also taken an industry-
leading role in interacting with the US FDA and the European 
Medicines Agency (EMEA) to communicate the value of recasting GMP regulations based on scientific and risk 
management principles.
Reducing Costs
Pfizer has initiated a Technology and Innovation strategy for its 
manufacturing facilities to reduce costs by $5 billion over 10 
years. As part of this strategy we are exploring manufacturing 
methods not traditionally found in the pharmaceutical industry, especially continuous manufacturing processes, and the 
development of new material options designed to reduce the 
cost of active pharmaceutical ingredients.
Improving EHS Performance of Contract Manufacturers and Key Suppliers
Our commitment to responsible environment, health and safety (EHS) management goes far beyond our facilities’ 
boundaries. We use stringent environmental performance 
criteria in assessing and selecting contract manufacturers  and key Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) suppliers.  
We are also committed to helping our contract manufacturers 
and key suppliers in the developing world improve their EHS competency. By helping to elevate the EHS performance 
of these contract manufacturers and suppliers, their 
workers and communities benefit, and we protect ourselves against business interruption that could impact contractual 
obligations.
To assure EHS responsibility in our supply chain, our EHS 
professionals in 2006 conducted more than 100 onsite reviews at the facilities of contract manufacturers and researchers, key 
suppliers, and outsourced logistic centers. Reviews were done in all regions of the world, with a focus on China and India. 
The results are communicated to our procurement groups and 
considered in supplier decisions.
Our supplier EHS review program is a key part of our 
supplier selection criteria. We use a two-tier approach. The top tier includes contract manufacturers and researchers for APIs or finished drug products that contain potent compounds. It 
also includes key suppliers of drug products and chemicals 
that are critical to the supply chain, such as high-value, unique chemical entity or single source suppliers. The second 
tier includes contract manufacturers that do not use potent 
compounds, do not make APIs and are considered less critical. If suppliers are rated as acceptable with qualifications,  
the qualifications are shared with the supplier and an action plan is requested to address the areas of concern. If a potential new supplier is found to be unacceptable, we will  
not do business with the entity until the concerns are addressed. If an existing supplier is rated as not acceptable, we typically work with the supplier to improve performance,  
or we may also end the relationship. 
Pfizer also actively supports EHS management 
improvement at many suppliers. In November 2006, for example, we sponsored a one-week intensive EHS training 
course in Shanghai, China, focusing on occupational  hygiene and process safety. The training was conducted  
by internationally recognized consultants, with Pfizer 
facilitating discussions. Sixty participants representing six  key suppliers attended the course.
Integrating EHS Criteria in the Purchase  of Goods and Services 
Integrating EHS criteria into our purchasing decisions for goods and services can reduce our cost, improve the quality 
of the product or service, reduce risks to our business, and 
reduce environmental degradation. For these reasons we have been examining categories of goods and services, identifying 
opportunities and risks in these purchases, working to develop 
EHS specifications and defining the methods by which we can measure the benefits of such purchases. 
One example of how such “green purchasing” benefits 
Pfizer and the environment is in the use of office paper.  Sixty-eight percent of the printer and copier paper we 
purchased in the US in 2005 was recycled paper. The foresting 
practices used to produce the raw material for  the paper we bought were certified as sustainable under  
the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. In making this choice  
we helped save 8,068 trees, 1,645,887 kilowatt hours of energy (enough to power 61 homes for one year), and 
321 metric tons of related carbon dioxide (CO
2) and other 
atmospheric greenhouse gas emissions (equal to the amount of CO
2 from the operation of 64 cars per year). We are 
currently purchasing printer and copier paper with 30 percent post-consumer waste recycled content.manUfactUring	/	SUPPly	chain 106 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportIncreasing Supplier Diversity 
The objective of our Supplier Diversity program is to build a 
supplier base that reflects the changing demographics of the 
consumer marketplace while helping Pfizer increase market 
share and shareholder value. In order to do this, we have implemented a three-part strategy:
•			Create	opportunities	through	our	sourcing	process	to	
increase our spending with minority and women-owned 
businesses. Over the last several years, we have increased such spending by 10 percent a year, well above the 
pharmaceutical industry average. Small businesses, 
service-disabled veterans and veterans are included in our Supplier Diversity Program.
•				Provide	executive	educational	programs	for	our	diversity	
suppliers and diversity education training and development for internal colleagues. For example, over the past three 
years, we have provided scholarships for minority and 
women-owned businesses to attend the Tuck School of Business Minority Executive Education Program at 
Dartmouth College. This program helps entrepreneurs with 
such issues as building strategic alliances, marketing and organizational development. Internally, we focus on goal 
setting and techniques to identify minority and women 
suppliers.
•				Align	with	advocacy	organizations,	such	as	the	National 
Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) and the 
Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). These leading advocacy and certification organizations 
provide certification and business development 
opportunities for minority and women-owned businesses. We support these organizations through local and national 
board memberships and sponsorships of conferences and 
workshops.Responsible Contracting
Two years ago, we implemented a Responsible Contracting initiative in the US for use on all major capital projects, 
site services and service contracts. Pfizer was the first 
pharmaceutical company to do so. Under the initiative, contractors and service providers may bid to Pfizer provided 
they comply with “responsible contracting” prequalification 
criteria that include paying appropriate wages, providing family health insurance and job training, complying with employment 
laws, and not using independent contractors. The company 
receives services from a broad spectrum of contractors with both union and non-union affiliations. Over the past 
decade, more than $1.2 billion, or approximately 85 percent, 
of our construction dollars have gone to union contractors. Responsible Contracting has helped to expand and diversify 
Pfizer’s service provider list, attracting new contractors to our 
sites and new workers to our communities.manUfactUring	/	SUPPly	chain Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 107 aWarDs an D reCogni Tion
The Women’s Business Enterprise National 
Council (WBENC) has recognized Pfizer as one 
of the 2006 Top Corporations for Women’s 
Business Enterprises. This marks the third consecutive year Pfizer has received this 
honor.
For the fourth consecutive year, Pfizer has 
been recognized as the Best Corporation 
for Multicultural Business Opportunities by 
DiversityBusiness.com. The online survey of minority and women business enterprises 
considered such factors as external outreach, 
mentoring, and senior management  commitment to diversity.
Pfizer’s Thane, India manufacturing facility won 
the Safety, Health & Environment Award from 
the Confederation of Indian Industries for its education and awareness initiatives.108 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Reportwe are looking for sustainable ways to meet 
healthcare needs around the world, today and 
tomorrow. w e help people get needed treatments 
and services, while fostering a climate of innovation that ensures steady progress in biomedical science.
Certainly, our work in research and development, 
prevention and wellness, and healthcare reform helps empower people in their own healthcare.  
But given the complexities of global healthcare 
issues, we cannot solve problems alone.
So, we will listen, learn and change, and work  
hard with responsible business practices, in 
partnership with our stakeholders, to help create  a healthier, wealthier world. 
That is our commitment.Looking AheadPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 109 gri	inDexglobal	reporting	initiative	(gri)	index
The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provide a framework for organizations to report on their social, environmental and economic 
performance.  For more information, please see www.globalreporting.or g.
1.1 Executive Management Statement CEO Letter
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities  Addressing Key Issues
Finding Cures and Treatments
Investing in HealthStrengthening Patient SafetyEnvironment, Health and SafetyPublic PolicySection 1 Strategy and Analysis
Pfizer Inc 2.1 Name of organization
Who We Ar e 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services
New York, New York 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters
Public company listed on NYSE under the symbol PFE 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form
2.8 Scale of reporting organization Who We Ar eWho We Ar e 2.3 Operational structure of the organization
Who We Ar e 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates
Revenues 
Revenues Major Pharmaceutical Products 2.7 Markets served
About the Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 
regarding size, structure or ownership
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period AccoladesSection 2 Organization Profile
3.1 Reporting period About the Report
3.2 Date of most recent previous report 2005 Corporate Citizenship Report
3.3 Reporting cycle About the Report
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report  
or its contentsWho We Ar e
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope  
or boundary of the reportScope of Report 3.5 Process for defining report content Materiality
3.6 Boundary of the report Scope of Report
Scope of Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 
leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 
entities
3.9 Environment, Health and Safety Data measurement techniques and the bases of 
calculationsSection 3 Report Parameters110 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report gri	inDex3.10 Explanation of the effects of any restatement of 
information provided in earlier reportsEnvironment, Health and Safety
Scope of Report 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods
GRI Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 
Disclosures in the report
About the Report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 
external assurance for the report
4.12 Our Collective Actions
Our Corporate Responsibility Standards 
and Evaluation Partners
Increasing Scientific Collaborations and Partnerships
Investing in HealthEnvironment, Health and SafetySales and MarketingExternally developed economic, environmental, and 
social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 
the organization subscribes or which it endorsesEnsuring Board Independence 4.3 Members of the highest governance body that are 
independent and/or non-executive members
Corporate Responsibility and the Board of Directors
Encouraging Shareholder and Stakeholder Participation4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 
provide recommendations or direction to the highest 
governance body
Instituting Greater Accountability in  
Executive Compensation4.5 Linkage between compensation and the organization’s 
performance
Ensuring Board Independence 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise 
of the members of the highest governance body for 
guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, 
environmental and social performance
Complying with All Laws, Committed to the Highest 
Ethical Standards4.8 Internally developed statement of mission or values, 
codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 
environmental, and social performance and the status 
of their implementation
Understanding the Impact of Pharmaceuticals  
in the Environment
Realizing the Promise of Green Chemistry4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 
approach or principle is addressed by the organizationEnsuring Board Independence 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance 
body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 
economic, environmental and social performanceCorporate Responsibility and the Board of Directors
Complying with All Laws, Committed to the  
Highest Ethical Standards4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 
overseeing the organization’s identification and 
management of economic, environmental and social 
performanceComplying with All Laws, Committed to the Highest 
Ethical Standards4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to 
ensure conflicts of interest are resolvedCorporate Responsibility and the Board of Directors 4.1 Governance structure of the organization
Governance and Compliance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance 
body is also an executive officer  Section 4 GovernancePfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 111 gri	inDex4.13 Our Corporate Responsibility Standards  
and Evaluation Partners 
Operating with a New Stakeholder Model
Our Collective Action Expanding Scientific Collaborations and PartnershipsSignificant membership in organizations
4.14 Operating with a New Stakeholder Model List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization
4.15 Operating with a New Stakeholder Model Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 
with whom organization engages
4.16 Operating with a New Stakeholder Model Approaches to stakeholder engagement,  
including frequency of engagement by type and  
by stakeholder group
4.17 Changing How We Integrate Stakeholder Needs Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 
stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 
responded to those key topics and concerns, including 
through its reporting
EC1 Revenues 
Costs and Expenses Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Direct economic value generated and distributed, 
including revenues, operating costs, employee 
compensation, donations and other community 
investments, retained earnings, and payment to capital providers and governments
EC2 Planning for Change Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
for the organization’s activities due to climate change
EC3 Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and  
Defined Contribution Plans Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan 
obligations
EC6 
(Partially Covered)Increasing Supplier Diversity Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-
based suppliers at significant locations of operations
EC7 
(Partially Covered)Striving for Enterprise-Wide Diversity and Inclusion Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 
management hired from the local community at 
locations of significant operation
EC8 Investing in Health Development and impact of infrastructure investments 
and services provided primarily for public benefit 
through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 
EC9 Reversing the Impact of Chronic Disease Understanding and describing significant indirect 
economic impacts, including the extent of impactsDisclosures on Management 
Approach (Economy) Investing in Health
Public Policy
Manufacturing/Supply Chain112 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report gri	inDexDisclosures on Management 
Approach (Environment) Environment, Health and Safety
EN1 Continuing to Reduce our Footprint: Reducing Air and 
Waste EmissionsMaterials used by weight or volume
EN2 Continuing to Reduce our Footprint: Reducing Air and 
Waste EmissionsPercentage of materials used that are recycled input 
materials
EN3 
(Partially Covered)Planning for Change Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 
EN4 Planning for Change Indirect energy consumption by primary source
EN5 Planning for Change Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 
improvements
EN7 Planning for Change Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 
reductions achieved
EN9 Water Use and Conservation Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal  
of water
EN10 Conserving Water Percentage and total volume of water recycled  
and reused
EN16 Climate Change: Reducing Greenhouse Gases and 
Using Energy WiselyTotal direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions  
by weight
EN17 Climate Change: Reducing Greenhouse Gases and 
Using Energy WiselyOther relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions  
by weight
EN19 Continuing to Reduce our Footprint: Reducing Air and 
Waste EmissionsEmissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 
EN20 Continuing to Reduce our Footprint: Reducing Air and 
Waste EmissionsNO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type 
and weight
EN21 Conserving Water Total water discharge by quality and destination
EN22 Continuing to Reduce our Footprint: Reducing Air and 
Waste EmissionsTotal weight of waste by type and disposal method
EN26 Understanding the Impact of Pharmaceuticals in  
the Environment Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 
products and services, and extent of impact mitigation
EN27  
(Partially Covered)Understanding the Impact of Pharmaceuticals in 
the EnvironmentPercentage of products sold and their packaging 
materials that are reclaimed by category
EN29 Climate Change: Reducing Greenhouse Gases and 
Using Energy WiselySignificant environmental impacts of transporting 
products and other goods and materials used for the 
organization’s operations, and transporting members of 
the workforceEN8 Conserving Water Total water withdrawal by sourceEN6 Carbon Disclosur e Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 
energy based products and services, and reductions in 
energy requirements as a result of these initiatives
EN28 EHS Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number 
of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 
environmental laws and regulationsPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 113 gri	inDexLA5 Managing Pfizer’s Transformation Minimum notice period regarding operational 
changes, including whether it is specified in collective 
agreements
LA8 Investing in Health
Establishing HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy 
Improving WellnessEducation, training, counseling, prevention, and  
risk-control programs in place to assist workforce 
members, their families, or community members 
regarding serious diseasesLA7 Reducing Injuries and Promoting a Culture of Safety Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days,  
and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 
by region
LA10 Advancing a Track Record in Training
Developing Talent and Employee EngagementAverage hours of training per year per employee 
categoryDisclosure on Management 
Approach (Labor Practices  
and Decent Work)Employees 
LA11 Developing Talent and Employee Engagement Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 
that support the continued employability of employees 
and assist them in managing career endings
Disclosure on Management 
Approach (Human Rights) United Nations Global Compact 
United Nations Global Compact  
Communication on Progress 
HR4 United Nations Global Compact Communication  
on ProgressTotal number of incidents of discrimination and  
actions taken
HR5 United Nations Global Compact Communication  
on Progress
Summary of Pfizer Policies on Business ConductOperations identified in which the right to exercise 
freedom of association and collective bargaining  
may be a significant risk, and actions taken to support 
these rights
HR7 United Nations Global Compact  
Communication on Progress
Summary of Pfizer Policies on Business ConductOperations identified as having significant risk  
for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 
measures to contribute to the elimination of forced  
or compulsory laborHR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for 
incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 
contribute to the elimination of child laborUnited Nations Global Compact  
Communication on Progress
Summary of Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct114 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report gri	inDexSO3 Complying with All Laws, Committed to the Highest 
Ethical StandardsPercentage of employees trained in organization’s  
anti-corruption policies and procedures
SO5 Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy 
development and lobbying
SO6 Public Policy in the United States Total value of financial and in-kind contributions  
to political parties, politicians, and related institutions 
by countryDisclosure on Management 
Approach (Society)Governance and Compliance
Public Policy 
PR1 Strengthening Patient Safety
Workplace Safety: Enhancing Strong Safety 
Performance Across the BusinessLifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 
products and services are assessed for improvement, 
and percentage of significant products and services 
categories subject to such procedure
PR3 Finding Cures and Treatments
Sales and MarketingType of product and service information required by 
procedures, and percentage of significant products and 
services subject to such information requirements
PR6 Implementing a Global Marketing Code of Conduct
Delivering Beneficial Prescription Medicine Advertising Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and 
voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 
including advertising, promotion, and sponsorshipDisclosure on  
Management Approach  
(Product Responsibility) Finding Cures and Treatments;
Investing in Health 
Strengthening Patient SafetySales and MarketingPfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 115 inDexindex
A
A Tiempo 40
Academic Alliance Foundation 43, 48Academy for Educational Development 36Active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) 8, 55, 105
African trypanosomiasis 21
Agency for Healthcare Administration (AHCA),   Florida 47
Age-related macular degeneration 42AIDS service organizations (ASOs) 36Aligning Customer Excellence Program (ACE)   12, 84, 91
Allergy & respiratory diseases 4Alliance for a Healthy Border 37Alliance for Health and the Future 91Alliance to Conserve the Maya Forest 61American Academy of Family Physicians 48American Cancer Society 10, 40, 89American Heart Association 10, 89
American Lung Association of Michigan 89
American Medical Association 10Americans with Disabilities Act 100Amigos en Salud 47
ANCHOR 42
Animals in research 29Animal welfare policy 29Ann Arbor B520 Renovation Project 73Argentine Congress of Clinical Oncology 40Aromasin
® 4
Association of Business Communicators 58Association of Clinical Oncology 22Association of the British Pharmaceutical  
 Industry 12
Ausiello, MD, Dennis A. (Director) 78, 79
Axitinib
® 24
B
Balance It Out: Arkansas 46
Biomarkers Consortium, The 30Biomedical innovation 21
Blue Book, The (Summary of Pfizer Policies on  
 Business Conduct) 77
Boston University School of Public Health 9Brookings Institution, The 9, 34 International Volunteerism Initiative 34
Brown, MD, Michael S. (Director) 78, 79
Burns, Anthony M. (Director) 78, 79
Burt, Robert N. (Director) 78, 79Business Ethics Center of Jerusalem 92Business for a Healthy Society Task Force 45Business Roundtable, The 7C
Caduet® 4
Campaign for Smokefree Air 86, 89
Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids 10Camptosar
® 4
Cancers 19, 22, 24, 29, 30, 40, 41 
 (also see “oncology”)
Candidemia 20
Caphri Research Institute of the University  
 of Maastricht 45
Cardiomobile, The 44Cardiovascular, metabolic and endocrine disease   4, 22, 24
Care-A-Van, The 44Caring for Climate, The Business 
 Leadership Platform 61
Celebrex
® 4, 54, 84
CEO-Colleague Advisory Committee 97, 101
Chagas’ disease 21Chantix
® (also Champix®) 4, 9, 19, 91
Chemicals in the workplace 69Childhood obesity 41, 42, 47
Chloroquine 21, 24
Chronic diseases 46
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) 45Chronicle of Philanthropy, The 49
CIO magazine 58Cleveland Clinic 54Climate change 62Clinical Research Unit, New Haven, CT 73
Clinical trials 25-26
 developing world 26
 disclosure policy 25
 ethical 25 
 phases of 25
 progress on commitments 8
 quality assurance 25, 26, 52, 54
 transparency 26, 27
Clinton Global Initiative 35Coalition Against Fake Medicines 58Coalition to Advance Health Reform 89Committee for Medicinal Products for   Human Use 20
Confederation of Indian Industries Safety,  
 Health and Environment Award 107
ConnectHIV 34
Connection to Care 48Conserving water 65Contract manufacturers 105
Cornelia Vlieg Association 41
Cornwell, Don W. (Director) 78, 79Corporate ethics and compliance 77Corporate Governance Principles 76Corporate Regulatory Compliance 77, 104
Corporate responsibility 5
 about the report 5 
 Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance  
  Committee 5
 integration of 5
 standards and evaluation partners 7
Cox Report 91CP-945-598 24
D
Data and Safety Monitoring Board 27Dementia 40Detrol
®/Detrol LA® 4
Developing talent 98Diabetes 18, 19, 22, 24, 30, 31, 38, 40, 43,  
 47, 48, 70
Diflucan Partnership Program 38, 49Disability Networking Group 100Diseases of the developing world, research for 21Diversity and Inclusion 99DiversityBusiness.com 107Dow Jones Sustainable Asset Management   (DJSAM) 7
Drug counterfeiting 56, 92, 95Drug distribution chain 58Drug importation 88
E
Easter Seals 10, 88Edna McConnell Clark Foundation 49Educating for Intellectual Property   Rights Program 92
Educational Grant Disclosure Plan 12Egypt Health Minister 93EHS Criteria for Purchasing Goods and Services 105EHS Guideline on Process Safety 72Electronic product code (EPC) 57Eliminating bureaucracy 102Employee education and training 82, 98
Employee engagement 98, 99
Employees with disabilities 100
Energy efficiency credits (or renewable   energy credits) 64
Environment, health and safety (EHS) 61
EPA Climate Leaders 62
EPA Environmental Performance Track 61
EPA Presidential Green Chemistry Award 68
e-prescribing 90Eraxis
® 4, 20
Ernst & Young 9EU Health Commission 91European Medicines Agency (EMEA) 105Excellence in Green Chemistry and  
 Engineering Award 68116 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report inDexExecutive compensation 76
Executive Leadership Team (ELT) 101Executive Medical Review Committee 53Exubera
® 4, 9, 19, 31, 54
Exxon Mobil 43
F
Family Health International 49FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research 88FDA Critical Path Initiative 30FDA Revitalization Act (FDARA) 88
Feczko, Joseph (Chief Medical Officer) 55
Fibromyalgia 20Fleet safety 72Florida: A Healthy State 47Food & Drug Packaging magazine 58Forbes magazine 94Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) 75, 77
Foundation for the National Institutes  
 of Health 30, 31
FTSE4Good 7
G
Gallup survey 98, 101Gastrointestinal 24Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) 19Gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender   (GLBT) community 100
Genetic Association Information Network (GAIN) 31Genitourinary 4, 24
Genotropin
® 4
Geodon®/Zeldox® 4
GetQuit 19
Gilead Sciences 43Glaucoma 42
Global Accountability Project (GAP) 7
Global Environmental Management   Initiative (GEMI) 13
Global Health Partners 34, 40Global HR News 49
Global Manufacturing Active Pharmaceutical  
 Ingredients 105
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 5, 8, 109Global Summit of Women 100Good Clinical Practices (GCP) Guidelines 26Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) 104, 105Governance Metrics International 78
Gray, III, William H. (Director) 78, 79
Green buildings 64Green chemistry 68“Green” purchasing 105Green Ribbon Health 46Greenhouse gases 61, 62, 63H
Han Zheng, Mayor of Shanghai 94, 95
Hazardous waste 66Health Coverage for the Uninsured   (HCCU) 13, 86, 89
Health disparities 92Health Volunteers International 49Healthcare Distribution Management Association   (HDMA) 58
Healthy ageing 91Healthy Pfizer 101HIV/AIDS prevention 36
HIV/AIDS workplace policy 100
Hong Kong Social Welfare Department 49Horner, Constance J. (Lead Director) 75, 76, 78Hospital Partnership Program 48Howell, William R. (Director) 78, 79Human Rights Campaign 102Humana Inc. 46
Hungarian Society of Hypertension 39
Hypertension 23, 39, 94, 95
I
Ibuprofen 54
Improvac 29In Vitro Testing Industrial Platform (IVTIP) 29“Incubator” at La Jolla 31
Industry strengths and weaknesses 6
Infectious Disease Institute (IDI) 43, 48
Infectious diseases 4, 21, 23, 24
Infectious Diseases Society of America 43, 48Inflammation 4, 24Institute for Supply Chain Management (ISM) 7Institute of Chemical Engineers (iChemE)  68
  Crystal Faraday Award for Green Chemical  
 Technology, UK 68
Intellectual property protection 90, 92International Alliance of Patients’ Organizations 10International Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption   Corporate Procedure 77
International Conference of Harmonization (ICH) 26
International Federation of Pharmaceutical  
 Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA) 26
International Life Sciences Institutes/Health   and Environmental Sciences Institute 29
International Rescue Committee 49International Trachoma Initiative (ITI) 36, 49Irish National Safety Organization 73
J
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of   Public Health 36K
Kenya Association of the Pharmaceutical Industry 92
Kindler, Jeff (Chairman, CEO) 2-3, 75, 76, 78, 101Korean Research Institute of Bioscience   and Biotechnology 93
L
Labs for the 21st Century collaborative   partnership 73
Lalcec (Argentine League Against Cancer) 40
Latino community 100
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design  
 (LEED) 73
Leishmaniasis 21Lifeline Express 95Lipitor
® 4, 84
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine 35
Lorch, George A. (Director) 78, 79Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate 71
Low income medical scheme, South Africa 92
Luxembourg Sustainable Health  
 Financing Studies 91
Lyrica
® 4, 20, 23, 68, 84
M
Makerere University 43, 48
Malaria 21, 24, 36 treatments 21
Manufacturing/supply chain 103-106
Mead, Dana G. (Director) 78, 79
Medicare Health Support Program (MHS) 46Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) or   Medicare Part D 46, 88
Medicines Australia 93Memory Bus 40Meningitis 26
Mental Health and Stress Management  
 Training Project 95
Mexican Diabetes Association 39Michigan Health and Hospital Association 89Michigan State Medical Society 89Missouri Water Environmental Association   “Gold Star Certificate” 73
Mobilize Against Malaria 34-35Morris Animal Foundation 29Mulago Hospital 48Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report 117 inDexN
NAACP 48
Naproxen 54National Alliance for Hispanic Health 48 National Alliance for the Mentally Ill 10
National Association of Boards of Pharmacy 58
National Association of Chain Drug   Stores (NACDS) 58
National Association of Community   Health Centers 48
National Association of Female   Executives (NAFE) 102 
National Business Disability Council 100National Cancer Institute (NCI) 29National Governors Association 48National Human Genome Advisory Council 31National Institutes of Health (NIH) 18, 30, 31National Minority Supplier Development   Council (NMSDC) 106
National Urban League 48Neuropathic pain 20Neuroscience 4, 23, 24New stakeholder model 10-11Nigeria, Kano 26Nikkei Woman, Japan 102Norvasc
® 4
O
Onchocerciasis 21Oncology 4, 22, 24, 40  (also see “cancers”)
Ophthamology 4, 24
Organization for Economic and Cooperation  
 Development (OECD) 10
OSHA VPP 61OSHAS 14001 and 18001 61Oxfam 10Ozone depleting compounds (ODC) 62, 66, 67Ozone depletion potential (ODP) 62, 67
P
Pain 4, 24Partners in Care Solutions (PICASSO) 45Partnership for Prescription Assistance (PPA) 39, 48Partnership for Quality Medical Donations  
 (PQMD) 13
Patient and medical group transparency 12
Patient privacy, right to 90PEPFAR 49Pfizer Animal Health 4, 29Pfizer Board of Directors 5, 75-79Pfizer Australia 93
Pfizer Canada 42
Pfizer Canine Tumor Biospeciman Bank 29Pfizer China 94Pfizer Compliance Education Center 77Pfizer Corporate Compliance Program 77Pfizer Europe Advisory Council 86, 91Pfizer Foundation 36, 40Pfizer Germany 41Pfizer Global Health Fellows 8, 37, 43, 44, 49
Pfizer Global Policy on Interactions   with Healthcare Professionals 83
Pfizer Health Solutions 46, 47Pfizer Helpful Answers 9, 39, 48, 84
Pfizer Hong Kong 49Pfizer Indonesia 42Pfizer Israel 92
Pfizer Japan 43, 93
Pfizer medical governance 52Pfizer Policies on Business Conduct 75, 77Pfizer Pro 81, 82Pfizer Spain 42Pfizer Suzhou 95Pfizer Thailand 92
Pfizer values 3
Pfizer Women Summit 100Pfizer World 101 The Exchange 101
Pfizer’s Corporate Governance Committee 76Pfizer’s leading medicines 4Pfizer’s Political Action Report 87
Pfizer’s transformation 98
Pharma Futures II 12Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency   (PMDA), Japan 93
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) 93Pharmaceutical Industry Labor   Management Association 10
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers   Association (PhRMA) 26, 30
Pharmaceuticals in the environment 68PhATE Model 68Philippine Association of Diabetes Educators 43Photovoltaic solar panels 64PhRMA Discoverers Award 31
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) 42
Post-marketing 53-55 commitments  55 
 studies 53
 transparency 55
PowderMed Ltd. 21Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUfA) 88
Prescription medicine advertising 84
Product Medical Review Committee 53Progress on 2006 commitments 8-9Project Hope 49Project Leonardo 39Public policy 85 Around the World 92  
 Europe 91  
 United States 87
Public-private partnerships 21, 30Q
QEII Health Sciences Centre Foundation 42
Quality, improving 104
R
Radio frequency identification (RFID) 57Rebif
® 4
Reducing costs 104 Reducing waste 66, 67Relpax
® 4
“Reports from the Road” 101Responsible Contracting Initiative 104, 106Revatio
® 4
Right First Time training 98, 104Research and development 16, 18, 22-24
 pipeline 22
 pipeline transparency 24
Ridley, Dr. Robert 21
S
Safety culture 70Sales force 81 global code of conduct 83
 number one ranking 82
 restructuring 83
San Francisco AIDS Foundation/Pangaea   Global Foundation 48
Schistosomiasis 21Scripps Research Institute, The 30S.E.E. Change/Climate Resolve 7Selzentry
TM/Celsentri® (maraviroc) 18, 20, 23
Shanghai Center for Disease Prevention   and Control 95
Shanghai Research & Development Center 94, 95
Sharing the Care 48
Sheet Metal Workers International Association 10Simmons Leadership Conference 100Slovenian Diabetics Association 44
Slovenian Heart Foundation 44
Smoking cessation 19, 91, 95
Song Jiang University Town 95Southern HIV/AIDS Prevention Initiative 40Steere, Jr., William C. (Director) 76, 78, 79Stem cell policy 28Supplier Diversity Program 104, 106Sustainable development 94, 95
Sustainable enterprise 94, 95
Sustainable Forestry Initiative 105Sutent
® 4, 19, 24, 31118 Pfizer 2007 Corporate Responsibility ReportT
TEAR Project 41
Technology and Innovation Strategy 8The AIDS Support Organization (TASO) 48Therapeutic Area Medical Review Committee 53
Therapeutic areas (TAs) 24
Torcetrapib 27Total Injury and Illness Rate 71Transparency International (TI) 7  Steering Committee on Business Principles   for Countering Bribery 7
Treat, Teach, Build, Serve 35-45
Trovan 26
Tuck School of Business Minority Executive   Education Program 106
Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development 27Trusty, Juanita 44
U
United Nations Global Compact 7, 61United States EPA Climate Leaders 7, 62United Way of America 48University of Michigan 98
University of Pennsylvania 42
University of Texas-Pan American 37Urban League’s Champion of Diversity Award 102
V
Versipan 82Vfend
® 4, 68
Viagra®  4, 56, 57, 95
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 61, 66, 67W
WaterAid 45
Way2Go, For a Healthier You 41Wellness 101Who We Are 4
Wildlife Habitat Council 73
Women Impacting Public Policy 10Women in Leadership 100Women’s Business Enterprise National Council   (WBENC) 106, 107
Working Mother magazine 102 Workplace safety 69
World Health Organization 18, 20, 49
 Health Evidence Network 10
 list of essential medicines 90
 SAFE 36
  Special Program for Research and Training  
 in Tropical Diseases (WHO/TDR) 21
World Resources Institute (WRI) 63
X
xalatan®/xalacom® 4
Z
Zithromax® 21, 36, 49
Zithromax®/chloroquine 21, 24
Zmax® 4
Zoloft® 4, 68
ZonMW 45Zyrtec
® 84
Zyvox® 4, 31
inDexDesign: Ideas On Purpose, New YorkThis Corporate Responsibility Report is printed on process chlorine-free FSC-certified Mohawk Options 100% PC, which is  
made with 100% post-consumer recycled fiber. The emissions from the electricity used to manufacture this paper are offset with 
credits from Green-e certified windpower projects. This paper is also certified by Green Seal.© Pfizer 2007. All rights reserved.
100 percent post-consumer waste fiber235 East 42nd Street
New York, NY 10017-5755212-573-2323www.pfizer.com