Making a  
Meaningful 
 Difference
2020 CORPORATE   
RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Contents
3  INTRODUCTION
3 From the Chairman and CEO
4 COVID-19: Saving and Sustaining Lives  
 During a Global Pandemic
5 Advancing Racial Justice
6 Company Profile
7 Corporate Responsibility
11  BAXTER'S 2020 CORPORATE   
 RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES  
 AND GOALS
13  BAXTER'S 2030 CORPORATE   
 RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENT  
 AND GOALS  
14 PRODUCT INNOVATION
14 Patient Safety and Quality
16 Sustainable Design
17 Materials Use
19 Product End-of-Life
21 WORKPLACE CULTURE
21 Global Inclusion and Diversity
24 Employee Engagement
26 Compensation and Benefits
26 Workplace Flexibility
27 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE  
27 Companywide Accountability
28 Ethics and Compliance Training
28 Third Party Program
28 Compliance Assessments
28 Compliance Monitoring
29 Relationships With Healthcare Professionals  
 and Government Officials
29 Ethics and Compliance Helpline
30 Privacy and Data Protection 
31 EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY
31 Injury and Illness Performance
32 Injuries and Major Incidents
32 Driving a Culture of Safety and Engagement
32 Health and Wellness Program Management  
 and Initiatives33 OPERATIONS
34 Environmental, Health and Safety  
 Performance
34 Energy
35 Water and Wastewater
36 Waste
36 GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain
37 GHG Emissions From Operations
37 Air Emissions
38 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT   
 AND LOGISTICS
38 Responsible Procurement
41 Green Logistics
43 INNOVATION THAT EXPANDS   
 ACCESS TO CARE
43 Product Donations 
45 The Baxter International Foundation
46 Collaborating to Improve Healthcare
49 SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES
49 Supporting Access to Clean Water and   
 Community Resilience
50 Fostering Tomorrow’s Innovation Through STEM
51 #BaxterGivesBack: Employee Volunteerism   
 and Giving
52 Summary of 2020 Giving
53 APPENDIX
53 About This Report
54 Materiality Assessment Findings
55 Baxter Data Summary
58 Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and  
 GHG Emissions
59 Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001, ISO 45001,  
 ISO 50001 and Green Building Certifications
60 Independent Assurance Statement
61 Sustainability Accounting Standards  
 Board Index
64 Global Reporting Initiative Index 
67 EndnotesASSURANCE AND VERIFICATION 
Apex Companies LLC (Apex) verified 
Baxter’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse 
gas emissions. See verification statement. 
Apex also assured the following sections of the report: 
• Product Innovation (except Patient Safety  
and Quality) 
• Employee Health and Safety 
• Operations 
• Responsible Procurement and Logistics 
• Related material in the Appendix: Baxter Data 
Summary ; Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and 
GHG Emissions ; and Baxter Facilities with ISO 
14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 and Green Building 
Certifications  
See assurance statements in English  and Spanish . 
Most of the financial data included in the   
Baxter Data Summary  are taken from the audited 
consolidated financial statements contained in the 
Baxter International Inc. 2020 Annual Report on  
Form 10-K . These financial statements are audited  
by Baxter’s independent registered public accounting  
firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT3Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3
JOSÉ (JOE) E. ALMEIDA    |   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer2020 was a year like no other, with unforeseen impact 
on so many aspects of our lives—personally and 
professionally. For Baxter, the global challenges 
presented in 2020 also inspired a unique and powerful 
year in our ongoing journey of corporate responsibility.
I write this letter against the backdrop of a public health 
crisis that continues to unfold in hot spots worldwide. As 
a global healthcare company manufacturing medically 
essential products for patient care, Baxter rapidly 
emerged on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic in 
2020. Our first priority was ensuring the health and safety 
of our employees. They, in turn, embraced our Mission to 
Save and Sustain Lives in all facets of our operations, from 
manufacturing and supply chain to clinical education, 
technical service, corporate philanthropy and well beyond. 
I remain in awe of my Baxter colleagues and their resolve 
to make a difference in this relentless battle, and together 
we are grateful to, and humbled by, caregivers worldwide 
for their tireless commitment on behalf of their patients.
Our mission came to life in a different manner following 
the May 2020 murder of George Floyd. This event, and 
the companywide introspection that followed, led directly to the launch of ACT: Activating Change Today, Baxter’s 
multidisciplinary effort to advance racial justice in our 
workplace, marketplace and the communities we serve—
with an intentional focus on addressing longstanding 
disparities in healthcare. It represents a new chapter in 
Baxter’s ongoing emphasis on inclusion and diversity.
You will find more about ACT and our response to the 
ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in the following pages. And 
these were not the only reasons 2020 was pivotal in Baxter’s 
corporate responsibility efforts. The year also marked the 
closeout of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Priorities and 
Goals. We advanced important efforts across these priorities 
and made great strides even in areas where we fell short. 
Among noteworthy accomplishments for the period:
• Since 2015, Baxter reduced absolute greenhouse gas 
emissions by 13.6% compared with 2015, exceeding 
our goal.
• Our commitment to the circular economy continued 
to advance with our PVC recovery and recycling 
partnerships with more than 375 hospitals and clinics 
across Australia, New Zealand, Guatemala and 
Colombia, exceeding our goal.
• We launched six therapies/products that reduced 
materials use by at least 15% versus those currently  
on market, exceeding our goal.
•  We achieved a 19% decrease in product complaints 
compared with 2015, exceeding our goal.  
• The Baxter International Foundation transformed its 
giving to focus on long-term strategic investments, 
establishing its first six Signature Partnerships to drive 
increased healthcare access around the world.
We also published our first annual Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Index, a voluntary public disclosure 
providing transparent, relevant corporate responsibility 
information to investors and other key stakeholders. 
While drawing our 2020 goals to a close, we reflected on a 
landscape and expectations that have evolved rapidly over  the past five years. This set the stage to establish new 
goals demonstrating our multifaceted, deeply ingrained 
commitment to the environmental, social and governance 
issues that are a priority to Baxter and our stakeholders. 
Our 2030 Commitment, formally launched in this report, 
reflects our responsibility to Empower our Patients, 
Protect our Planet and Champion our People and 
Communities. Among our bold goals, Baxter is committing 
to the following: 
•  Double the number of patients reached in underserved 
markets through our peritoneal dialysis (PD) portfolio
•  Achieve carbon neutrality for our direct operations by 
2040 and reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions 25% by 2030, aligned with a well-below 
2⁰ Celsius science-based target
•  For the first time publicly, aspire to specific levels 
of representation of women (globally) and ethnic 
minorities (in the United States) in leadership roles
Our new goals generally span a 10-year horizon. They are 
expansive and ambitious, yet clear and attainable. They 
reflect and advance key global frameworks, including 
Baxter's inaugural alignment with several of the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Today’s challenges are complex and present great 
promise and potential for companies like Baxter to make 
an impact in our shared quest for a brighter future. I 
want to thank my more than 50,000 Baxter colleagues 
worldwide, whose passion fuels our progress as a leading 
corporate citizen. And most importantly, the Baxter team 
thanks our stakeholders across the communities we serve 
for encouraging and inspiring us to reach ever higher. From the Chairman and CEOBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT4Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
4COVID-19: Saving and Sustaining 
Lives During a Global Pandemic
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has created a worldwide crisis unprecedented in our lifetimes. 
As a global leader in healthcare, delivering on our mission to save and sustain lives became  
more vital than ever. We continue to protect the health and safety of our employees; increase  
the supply of critically necessary products and therapies; share our industry expertise, including 
partnering in 2021 to manufacture COVID-19 vaccines; and provide philanthropic support to 
communities in need. Learn more about our response.          Of course, this COVID-19 
situation is scary for us and our  
loved ones, but our mission 
to ‘save lives’  keeps us going. 
Today, more than ever, we feel 
like ‘super heroes!’”    
PIERLUIGI  
FIELD SERVICE ENGINEER, ITALY“
OUR PEOPLE
From our front-line workers in manufacturing to our clinical educators, service specialists and   
more, Baxter colleagues have played an extraordinary role in maintaining and increasing critical  
product supply to meet patient needs. We also deployed a staged response plan and have 
introduced new initiatives, benefits, resources and ongoing communications to support the health 
and safety of all Baxter employees.  See Employee Health and Safety and Workplace Culture.
OUR PRODUCTS
OUR EXPERTISE
Our medical team is working with global healthcare professionals to understand the unique 
clinical challenges created by COVID-19. Additionally, Baxter's BioPharma Solutions business is 
providing fill/finish sterile manufacturing services and supply packaging for the Moderna COVID-19  
Vaccine; sterile manufacturing services for NVX-CoV2373 , the Novavax COVID-19  recombinant 
nanoparticle vaccine candidate with Matrix-M ™ adjuvant; and sterile manufacturing services as 
part of a group of industry partners collaborating with BioNTech  on its COVID-19 vaccine.
OUR COMMUNITIES
The Baxter International Foundation is providing financial support to address the needs of 
patients, healthcare workers and communities. In 2020, the Foundation provided $2.5 million 
in COVID-19 relief grants, including $1 million to support Save the Children’s global relief 
efforts. We also implemented a 2:1 employee gift match for select organizations focused on 
COVID-19 relief around the world. See Innovation That Expands Access to Care .
4
Photo credit:  Courtesy of Americares.We have boosted capacity and production to help address the elevated demand for our products 
around the world. This included creating airbridges and seabridges to expedite delivery of 
supplies, increasing freight capacity, obtaining emergency use authorizations for a multitude 
of products, working closely with global governments to ensure ongoing manufacturing, and 
continuing our manufacture-to-donate program with humanitarian partners.  See Public Policy .
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT5Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
55555We are united by our mission to save and sustain lives, which rests on a strong 
foundation and commitment to inclusion and diversity globally. Racism, 
intolerance, marginalization and discrimination affect our colleagues, families, 
friends and communities worldwide in countless forms. In 2020, working in 
close collaboration with our Baxter Black Alliance business resource group, we 
launched ACT: Activating Change Today , a multidimensional, multidisciplinary 
and multiyear initiative to advance inclusion and racial justice within our 
workplace and the communities and markets we serve.
As the name suggests, ACT is about taking action to drive results. We want to 
achieve meaningful, sustainable change within and beyond Baxter and be part of 
the solution to the complex, longstanding, multifaceted societal issue of racial 
injustice. We are acting with a sense of urgency, prioritizing initiatives that we 
believe will make the biggest impact.Advancing Racial Justice
THE MARKETPLACE
We are collaborating to promote patient advocacy work, 
bolster the pipeline of Black healthcare professionals 
in medicine, ensure the healthcare professionals we 
engage with have experience treating diverse patient 
populations and more. OUR COMMUNITIES
We are partnering with leading nonprofit organizations 
to advance racial justice in the United States, including 
a new Signature Partnership with the American Diabetes 
Association to address health disparities for people with 
diabetes in Chicago’s underserved Black communities. 
Additionally, we are expanding our supplier diversity 
program and strengthening our healthcare disparity 
advocacy efforts by supporting and deploying relevant 
programming with leading policy organizations.   
See Innovation That Expands Access to Care.We are actively working to build a more inclusive and 
diverse workforce and workplace through enhanced 
recruitment, engagement and development strategies, 
including new listening approaches, addressing 
unconscious bias in our human resources processes 
and more. See Workplace Culture.OUR WORKFORCE AND WORKPLACE
5“          This is a generational defining moment. 
I know that the conversations are tough…
conversations of race, of social injustice, of systemic  
oppression. But we should have them anyway.” 
NOSA, TERRITORY BUSINESS MANAGER, ADVANCED SURGERY
Photo:  Employees heard from their colleague, Nosa, on his views and experiences with 
institutional and systemic racism in the United States. As part of our ACT initiative, Baxter is 
working to foster open, honest conversations. To hear from Nosa, click here.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT6Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
 Company Profile
Every day, millions of patients and caregivers rely on 
Baxter's leading portfolio of critical care, nutrition, renal, 
hospital and surgical products. For 90 years, we’ve been 
operating at the critical intersection where innovations 
that save and sustain lives meet the healthcare providers 
that make it happen. Our corporate responsibility 
commitment is fundamental to our ability to deliver 
on this mission as we grow our business sustainably 
and strive to meet the needs of all our stakeholders, 
including our employees, our shareholders, the 
communities where we operate, and the patients, 
clinicians and caregivers who rely on our products. 
Baxter’s heritage and global reach provide a distinct 
perspective on the needs of patients and caregivers 
around the world. We continue to lead by applying 
those insights to deliver new and enhanced healthcare 
solutions, increase access to care and expand our 
presence across the continuum of care. We have a 
longstanding commitment to research and development 
(R&D) and a rich history of medical firsts, from the first 
commercially manufactured IV solutions to the first 
portable kidney dialysis machine, and many more. Each 
of our more than 50,000  employees1 is dedicated to 
ensuring that Baxter is there when and where patients 
need care—from hospitals to clinics and homes, in rural 
areas and major cities around the world. We will continue to transform healthcare by supporting 
educational opportunities that will cultivate the next 
generation of innovators, investing in the pursuit of 
new discoveries and research, and partnering with 
world-renowned institutions to further our impact. 
We underpin this work with a commitment to conduct 
our business with integrity, attract and develop a more 
diverse and inclusive workforce, increase operational 
efficiency and innovate more sustainable products.
GLOBAL PRESENCE
Baxter's products, technologies and therapies are 
available in more than 100 countries across three 
geographic segments: the Americas (including North 
and South America); Europe, Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC). Our corporate 
headquarters is located in Deerfield, Illinois, in the 
United States. R&D is conducted at centers in Belgium, 
China, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malta, 
Sweden, the UK and the United States. Our products 
are manufactured in approximately 50 facilities across 
more than 20 countries. 
Each of the company’s geographic segments provides 
a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, 
including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile 
IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral 
nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic 
injectable pharmaceuticals; and surgical hemostat 
and sealant products. Europe, 
Middle East 
and AfricaAmericasAsia Pacific
$11.7 B21%
25%54%
REVENUE BY PRODUCT CATEGORY, 2020 * 
* Sales and related figures represent fiscal year 2020; other sales represent ~$0.1B. REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT, 2020COMPANY OVERVIEW, 2020
100+Products available in
countries*50 ,000+
employees worldwide*
20+Manufacturing in
countries*$38 million+
in charitable giving
Clinical Nutrition$0.9 B
Renal Care$3.8 B
Pharmaceuticals$2.1 B
Advanced Surgery$0.9 B
Acute Therapies$0.7 B
BioPharma Solutions$0.5 B
Medication Delivery$2.7 B* As of December 31, 2020.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT7Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
INNOVATION
At Baxter, we innovate to bring smarter, more 
personalized care to the world. Our investments 
accelerate the introduction of new technologies and 
therapies for patients and providers. These efforts are 
bolstered by our partnerships with clinical experts, 
leaders in digital health and the broader healthcare 
industry who diversify our discovery process. Baxter’s 
robust product pipeline will help clinicians be more 
efficient and effective as they treat patients across 
multiple care settings, including the hospital bedside, 
operating room and intensive care unit as well as the 
dialysis clinic and at home. 
To fuel our next chapter, we are transforming the way we 
operate by empowering our people to learn and innovate 
at scale using digital technology. Our goal is a company-
wide digital operating model powering our people, 
processes and products. This model will help us: 
• Operate more efficiently and with increased agility
• Open new avenues for revenue generation through 
digital solutions
• Improve access to relevant, real-time data to drive 
effective decision-making 
• Provide increased value to customers and earn 
higher customer loyalty
• Equip employees with the skills and tools they need 
to thrive in our digital future  
We continue partnering with others to find new ways 
to personalize and increase access to care, improve 
patient outcomes, prevent complications before they 
become life-threatening and lessen the overall cost of 
care. In 2021 and beyond, we expect to introduce several 
innovations to improve care for patients around the 
world, including expanded infusion pump offerings, new 
developments in home dialysis, generic injectable drug 
offerings in unique delivery platforms and more.Corporate responsibility is integral to Baxter’s 
business strategy. Throughout our history, 
employees worldwide have championed our 
company’s mission to save and sustain lives. 
Our approach to corporate responsibility supports 
our company’s goals to achieve top quartile 
results relative to industry peers and other 
comparators across four dimensions: 
Patient safety and Quality  
Growth through innovation 
Best place to work 
Industry-leading performance  This annual Corporate Responsibility Report illustrates 
our commitment to sound governance and balanced, 
transparent disclosure. We have reported our 
environmental performance for nearly 30 years and have 
consistently broadened and enhanced our reporting on 
the environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues 
that are a priority to Baxter and our stakeholders.
PERFORMANCE GOALS
Setting goals across a broad range of corporate 
responsibility issues demonstrates our commitment, 
reinforces accountability and drives ongoing 
improvement . This report states final progress against 
Baxter’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility Priorities and 
Goals , which cover the period from 2015–2020, with 
additional details in the relevant report sections. Corporate Responsibility
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT8Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
This report also introduces Baxter’s 2030 Corporate  
Responsibility Commitment and Goals . Anchored 
by three pillars—Empower our Patients, Protect 
our Planet, and Champion our People and 
Communities—this commitment features a new 
set of 10 goals. Given the scale and scope of the 
challenges we face as a society, we chose a 10-year 
timeframe for most of these goals to advance 
meaningful progress against substantive issues 
throughout this critical decade.
To prioritize action in the areas where we can have 
the greatest positive impact, our goals align with 
Baxter’s material corporate responsibility issues . 
In the coming year, we expect to conduct a new 
materiality assessment and continue to evaluate the 
importance of these issues to our stakeholders and 
our impact across our value chain. This information 
will inform the evolution of our 2030 goals.
We developed our 2030 goals through broad 
engagement with Baxter executives, our Board 
of Directors, subject matter experts across the 
company, investors, nongovernmental organizations 
and other external stakeholders. Industry and cross-
industry benchmarking also informed the process.
In parallel, we are proud to affirm our support for 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs) and 2030 Agenda—a global blueprint for 
achieving a more sustainable future. Our business 
and corporate responsibility initiatives touch various 
aspects of the UN SDGs, with a critical focus on:   
GOAL 3: Good Health and Well-Being    
GOAL 6: Clean Water and Sanitation    
GOAL 12: Responsible Consumption and Production     
   ESG: DRIVING BUSINESS VALUE
As a mission-driven company, our corporate 
responsibility strategy focuses on delivering business 
value by addressing the ESG issues that matter most 
to our company and stakeholders. Our strategy also 
addresses the key risk factors that may impact the 
long-term sustainability of our business. Following is a 
representative sample of how advancing our corporate 
responsibility goals contributes to business value: 
Employee attraction and retention     We foster an 
environment of inclusion and engagement with our 
employees and listen carefully to their feedback. 
For example, we seek employee input on critical and 
timely topics on an ad hoc basis and conduct annual 
Best Place to Work surveys. (This survey was deferred 
in 2020 due to COVID-19.) In addition, twice a year we 
invite employees to provide feedback about their direct 
managers in the areas of ethical standards, work 
flexibility, inclusion, recognition and more. Based on 
feedback from 25,000 employees in November 2020,  
our overall manager effectiveness score was 82%—eight 
percentage points above the top quartile benchmark. 
See Transforming Company Culture .
Operational efficiency    We estimate that new projects 
we initiated in 2020 to reduce product packaging will save 
nearly $260,000 on an annualized basis. During 2019 and 
2020, we also implemented 340 energy conservation 
projects. We estimate these projects saved 155 trillion 
joules of energy and $4.1 million and avoided 13,600 metri c 
tons carbon dioxide equivalent of greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions during 2020.2 In addition, recycling at Baxter 
generated $2.3 million in net income during the year . 
See Packaging , Energy  and Waste . 
License to operate    Maintaining global strategies and 
programs to help ensure that we meet privacy regulations 
such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation; 
human rights-related legislation such as the California  
PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS
Human rights are foundational to Baxter's 
corporate responsibility strategy. We have 
policies and processes in place to protect human 
rights across our value chain, including the 
rights of our suppliers’ workers, our employees, 
our customers and the patients who rely on our 
products. As outlined in our Global Human Rights 
Policy , we respect the human rights, dignity 
and diverse contributions of all individuals. 
Fostering human rights takes many forms at 
our company and is reflected in our policies and 
initiatives in areas including workplace inclusion , 
employee safety , supply chain labor practices , 
ethical conduct , access to healthcare , and 
patient, employee and customer privacy . Also 
see information about our actions during 2020 
related to COVID-19  and racial justice . Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010; and 
product materials restrictions such as the EU RoHS 
Directive, EU REACH Regulation and EU Medical 
Devices Regulation supports our continued access to 
key markets. See Privacy and Data Protection , 
Protecting Human Rights in Our Supply Chain  and 
Materials of Concern . 
Risk reduction    Ongoing reduction in product 
complaints (down 19% compared with 2015) as 
well as improvements on other quality-related 
metrics enhances patient safety and decreases 
risks of regulatory actions. We also identify and 
manage climate-related risks as part of our global 
risk management activities, implement a GHG 
emissions-reduction strategy and build resiliency 
across our supply chain. See Patient Safety and Quality  
and GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain .BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT9Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Governance    ESG matters are subject to oversight 
at the highest levels of Baxter, including our Senior 
Leadership Team (whose annual incentive compensation 
is tied, in part, to ESG metrics beginning in 2021) and 
our Board of Directors (with two committees sharing 
oversight for ESG matters). The diversity of background 
and experience represented by our Board of Directors 
provides key insights for corporate responsibility 
and strategic initiatives, operational performance 
and financial control. See  Corporate Responsibility 
Governance and Management and Our Leadership . 
Reputation    Maintaining high ethical standards, 
ensuring strong labor and environmental practices in 
our supply chain and supporting communities where 
we have an operational presence all contribute to our 
reputation as a leading corporate citizen. See Ethics and 
Compliance , Responsible Procurement and Logistics , 
Serving Our Communities  and Recognition . 
Revenue    Innovation to enhance patient safety and 
product quality drives our ability to meet patient needs 
and ultimately improve health outcomes. Customers 
increasingly consider environmental and social 
performance in proposal reviews and purchasing 
decisions. In addition, our efforts to expand access to 
care, particularly in the renal space for underserved 
markets, unlock new opportunities for revenue growth. 
See Product Innovation  and Innovation That Expands 
Access to Care .
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COUNCIL
Baxter’s Corporate Responsibility Council is composed 
of executives and subject matter experts from across 
the company. The Council, which meets quarterly, 
leads our efforts to integrate corporate responsibility 
throughout our business and ensures high standards 
of accountability for the management of our corporate 
responsibility priorities and goals. The Council’s role is to: 
• Set and advance our corporate responsibility strategy 
and culture 
• Establish, implement and track progress against 
our corporate responsibility priorities and goals (as 
reviewed by our Board of Directors)
• Provide oversight and drive organizational accountability 
• Deliver regular progress updates to our Board of 
Directors 
• Solicit and review stakeholder input on Baxter's 
corporate responsibility programs, priorities, goals 
and disclosure, as well as broader industry trends 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OVERSIGHT 
Our Board of Directors is playing an increased role in 
corporate responsibility. As of November 2020, the Quality, 
Compliance and Technology (QCT) Committee and the 
Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy 
(NCGPP) Committee  of our Board of Directors share 
oversight for ESG-related matters. The QCT Committee 
GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BAXTERprovides oversight for issues related to environmental 
sustainability and compliance, while the NCGPP 
Committee provides oversight for other areas related to 
Baxter’s corporate responsibility, including charitable 
contributions, public policy, access to healthcare and 
other social and governance issues.  
SENIOR LEADER ACCOUNTABILITY
Beginning in 2021, the individual performance assessment 
for our Senior Leadership Team under our annual 
incentive plan will be determined in connection with an 
assessment of our performance against pre-established 
measures for strategic 2021 priorities, including those 
related to ESG.  For example, these measures include:   
• Patient safety and quality, including product safety 
and quality systems
• Best place to work, including diversity in the workforce,  
culture, talent, Baxter’s ACT initiative, and environmental , 
health and safety measures
• Growth through innovation, including our ongoing 
digital transformation
Chairman and CEO
Executive Co-Sponsors 
 SVP and President, Americas and Global Business Units            SVP, Chief Supply Chain OfficerBoard of Directors 
 Quality, Compliance and Technology Committee            Nominating, Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee
Co-Chairs
VP, Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability            Senior Director, Global Community Relations
Corporate Responsibility Council Members
Corporate Responsibility Working GroupSVP, Global 
CommunicationsVP, Investor 
RelationsGeneral Manager, 
Medication DeliveryGeneral Manager, 
Renal Care
Chief Procurement 
Officer
VP, Global Engineering and 
Manufacturing Strategy VP, Global 
Patient SafetyVP, HR—Americas, 
GBUs, and R&DVP, Finance—Integrated 
Supply Chain and QualityDeputy General Counsel and 
Chief Compliance Officer
VP, National and  
Strategic AccountsSenior Director, 
Product QualityBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT10Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Communities
Shareholders
Patients/
Healthcare 
ProvidersGovernments/
PayersEmployeesSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Baxter collaborates with a broad range of stakeholders to 
inform our corporate responsibility strategy, priorities and 
goals. We identify and engage with stakeholders based on 
their expertise, level of influence, willingness to collaborate, 
impact on Baxter and our company's impact on them. 
We continue to see increased interest in ESG matters 
across our stakeholder groups. With these topics 
growing in importance for many audiences, we work to 
consistently improve the quality of information we share 
and how we provide that information. 
During 2020, in response to interest from our investors 
and other stakeholders and to further increase 
transparency in our reporting, we published our first 
disclosure based on the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Medical Equipment and Supplies 
Sustainability Accounting Standard. Our second SASB 
disclosure  is included in this report, and we plan to 
continue publishing SASB disclosures annually in future 
Corporate Responsibility Reports. We are assessing the potential of disclosing against additional frameworks  
that are valuable to our stakeholders, such as the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. 
Furthermore, in early 2021, Baxter joined the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Business Leadership Forum on 
“Corporate Reporting as a Driver for Achieving the SDGs” 
to inform our strategy and support of the SDGs.
MATERIALITY
To understand and prioritize issues that are critical 
to the long-term sustainability of our business, we 
periodically conduct assessments to identify the corporate 
responsibility issues that are most relevant to Baxter 
and our stakeholders. Outcomes from these ongoing 
assessments inform our corporate responsibility strategy, 
commitment and goals. See a list of our  material corporate 
responsibility issues  (as defined during our 2018 
assessment) and their impacts across our value chain . 
For more information about the process we undertook and 
the key findings of that assessment, see page 6 of our  
2018 Corporate Responsibility Report . We expect to 
conduct a new materiality assessment in the near future.BAXTER’S FIVE PRIMARY STAKEHOLDER GROUPS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RESOURCES
Visit Baxter’s Our Governance  webpage for 
information and links related to: 
• Corporate Governance Guidelines
• Board Committees and Charters
• Code of Conduct
• Securities Trading Policy
• Ethics and Compliance Helpline
Our Ethics and Compliance  webpage includes 
links to additional standards and policies for 
our employees and suppliers that help us drive 
a culture of integrity and ethical behavior. BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT11Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
WORKPLACE  
CULTURE
Promote inclusion,  
diversity and  
employee engagement
EMPLOYEE HEALTH 
AND SAFETY 
Achieve a zero-harm 
workplace and improve 
employee well-beingETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE  
Drive a culture of 
integrity and the highest 
ethical behaviorPRODUCT 
INNOVATION 
Improve sustainability 
and performance of 
products and services
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11PRIORITIES GOALS PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 STATUS
Our 2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals support Baxter's top quartile goals, which include:Patient safety 
and QualityGrowth through 
innovationBest place 
to workIndustry-leading 
performanceAspire to diversity in leadership at or 
above benchmarks 
Achieve an employee engagement score 
comparable to top quartile companies as 
measured by Baxter’s Best Place to Work survey
Drive highest integrity and compliance to 
achieve zero government enforcement actions 
over compliance issues 
Achieve overall compliance culture scores in the 
top quartile of general industry benchmarks 
Achieve the top quartile in total recordable 
incident rate among global companies across all 
industries as measured by ORC HSEWe have eliminated 2,128 metric tons of packaging material from products shipped 
to customers since 2016,1 including 149 metric tons in 2020.
Baxter screens all new products under development and changes existing products  
and processes to eliminate or reduce chemicals of concern. During 2020, this 
included non-DEHP product launches in all regions.    
As of the end of 2020, 377 hospitals and facilities had recycling programs for 
some of Baxter’s products, exceeding our goal. 
During 2020, we remained at or above external benchmarks for women (globally) 
and ethnic minority representation (in the United States) at most career levels. We 
continue to work toward closing gender and ethnic minority gaps at executive levels.  
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we did not conduct our annual Best Place to Work 
(BPTW) survey in 2020. Results from this survey determine our employee 
engagement score, which rose steadily each year from 2016 to 2019 (and was three 
percentage points below the top quartile benchmark in 2019). We continue to 
prioritize engagement with our employees.  
Baxter had zero corruption-related enforcement actions from 2016 through 2020 .
Baxter did not conduct a BPTW survey in 2020. However, BPTW survey results from 2016 
to 2019 demonstrated consistent improvement in the area of ethics and compliance. 
In 2019, the scores for the two questions related to ethics culture were one percentage 
point above and two percentage points below top quartile companies, respectively.  
Reduce employee health risk by increasing 
participation from 35% to 45% in BeWell@Baxter 
health promotion program initiatives and by 
expanding family participationWe achieved 49% participation across the BeWell@Baxter initiatives, exceeding 
our goal of 45%.In a comparison of 23 companies globally across all industries,2 Baxter's total recordable 
incident rate during 2020 ranked thirteenth. Although we did not achieve top quartile 
performance in 2020, we did in 2018 and 2019.Achieved
Achieved
Achieved
Achieved
AchievedAchieve at least 15% material reduction on three 
therapies/products compared to those currently 
on the market, without affecting efficacy
Eliminate 3,000 metric tons of packaging material 
from Baxter products shipped to customers
Eliminate or minimize the presence of 
chemicals of concern (as defined by regulations) 
in new products
Partner with organizations to implement 
recycling of product waste at hospitals and 
increase participation from 60 hospitals to 200Since 2015, Baxter has launched six therapies/products that reduced materials 
use by at least 15%, exceeding our goal. 
Not achieved
Not achieved
Not achievedAchievedEnhance product quality and patient safety by 
achieving a 15% reduction in product complaints, 
compared to 2015 (aggregate)The company achieved a 19% decrease in product complaints compared with 2015. Baxter's 2020 Corporate Responsibility Priorities and Goals
 This table summarizes progress on our 2020 goals, which were introduced in the 2015 Baxter Corporate Responsibility Report. The baseline is 2015 unless otherwise stated.
Unavailable
UnavailableBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT12Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
OPERATIONS 
Reduce environmental 
footprint through 
increased efficiency 
and resource 
conservation
RESPONSIBLE 
PROCUREMENT 
AND LOGISTICS  
Implement world-
class sustainability 
practices with  
key partners
INNOVATION 
THAT EXPANDS 
ACCESS TO CARE
Improve access  
to healthcare for  
the underserved
SERVING OUR 
COMMUNITIES  
Support communities 
worldwide in 
enduring waysReduce total energy and water use and total 
waste generation by 15% indexed to revenue
Reduce absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions by 10%Pursue zero waste-to-landfill by achieving  
a landfill diversion rate of 95% or higher at all 
manufacturing locations
Increase Baxter’s spending with diverse 
suppliers by 50%, from 4% of relevant spending 
in 2015 to 6% in 20203 
Expand green transport partnerships with 
government agencies, nongovernmental 
organizations and/or private companies from one 
business region to all business regions globally
Proactively pre-position Baxter’s donated 
products with donor partners, which will enable 
them to optimally distribute and be first on 
scene to address critical medical needs
Establish the Baxter International Foundation 
Partnership Grant program in 2016 to drive 
increased access to healthcare for an incremental 
10,000 patients annually
Launch two new emerging market business 
models in Baxter’s renal business
Complete two projects, including one by 2018, 
that support access to clean water or enhance 
sanitation in water-stressed areas where Baxter 
has an operational presenceThrough 2020, Baxter reduced energy use, water use and waste generation by 
8.2%, 10.4% and 14.7%, respectively, compared with 2015 and indexed to revenue.  
Through 2020, we reduced our absolute GHG emissions from operations by 13.6% 
compared with 2015, exceeding our goal.In 2020, 25 out of 51 manufacturing facilities achieved landfill diversion 
rates of 95% or more.
Baxter increased purchases with diverse suppliers to 5.6% of relevant spending 
during 2020.
As of the end of 2020, Baxter was participating in green transport partnerships 
in all three regions, achieving our goal. In 2020, we also joined two global 
initiatives focused on responsible logistics: Clean Cargo and the Global Logistics 
Emissions Council.  
In 2016, Baxter launched a manufacture-to-donate program, an industry best practice, 
to pre-position our products and increase our humanitarian partners’ response 
capacity. In 2020, Baxter donated products valued at $24 million. Additionally, our 
partners distributed our products across 67 countries in response to natural disasters, 
COVID-19 and to support ongoing humanitarian aid and medical missions.  
From 2016 through 2020, we have helped support six Signature Partnerships 
benefiting hundreds of thousands of people and families globally, exceeding 
our goal.  
From 2016 through 2020, we established three Baxter Renal Care Services  clinics 
in emerging markets—one in Indonesia and two in China. These clinics operate 
under two distinct business models.  
We have implemented two projects in support of this goal: a partnership with 
Fundación Solar in Guatemala (established 2017) and Project Srujal in Ahmedabad, 
India (established 2018), achieving our goal.AchievedAchieved
Achieved
Achieved
Achieved
AchievedPRIORITIES GOALS PROGRESS THROUGH 2020 STATUS
Not achievedNot achieved
Not achieved
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 12Our 2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals support Baxter's top quartile goals, which include:Patient safety 
and QualityGrowth through 
innovationBest place 
to workIndustry-leading 
performanceBaxter's 2020 Corporate Responsibility Priorities and Goals
 This table summarizes progress on our 2020 goals, which were introduced in the 2015 Baxter Corporate Responsibility Report. The baseline is 2015 unless otherwise stated.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT13
Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Baxter's 2030 Corporate Responsibility Commitment and Goals
 The baseline is 2020 unless otherwise stated.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13Double the number of  patients reached 
in underserved markets * through our 
peritoneal dialysis (PD) portfolio . 
*Countries outside of the United States, Canada, Western 
Europe, Japan, Korea, Australia and New Zealand.
Achieve a 10% year-over-year 
improvement in manufacturing process 
capability for prioritized products. * 
*As measured by the year-over-year decrease in defect 
rate until each product’s process capability goal is met. 
(Baseline is 2021.)
EMPOWER OUR PATIENTS
Invest in innovative initiatives,  
products and therapies  
that tackle barriers to safe  
and quality healthcare
SUPPORTING THE UNITED NATIONS  
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 
GOAL 3: Good Health and Well-Being    
GOAL 6: Clean Water and Sanitation    
GOAL 12: Responsible Consumption  
 and Production      
    
Invest $275 million in underserved   
communities through strategic partnerships  
and product donations from Baxter and 
the Baxter International Foundation. 
Achieve top quartile workplace safety 
performance annually in total recordable 
incident rate. * 
*Among global companies across industries as reported  
by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Through hiring, promotion and retention, 
aspire to increase representation of women 
in leadership roles globally to 40%. * 
*Assuming labor market conditions continue to support  
the goal. Leadership role is defined as director and above.
Through hiring, promotion and retention, 
aspire to increase representation of 
ethnic minorities in leadership roles in 
the United States to 25%. *
*Assuming labor market conditions continue to support  
the goal. Leadership role is defined as director and above.
CHAMPION OUR PEOPLE
AND  COMMUNITIES
Create a best place to work  
for our employees and make   
a meaningful difference in  
communities around the world
Achieve carbon neutrality for our direct 
operations by 2040 and reduce absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 
25% by 2030, aligned with a well-below  
2⁰ Celsius science-based target. 
Implement strategic water management 
plans at prioritized manufacturing locations. * 
*Identify prioritized locations using a risk-based approach  
by the end of 2023.
Integrate Baxter's sustainable procurement 
strategy across 90% of our supplier spend. *  
*As measured by supplier commitment to Baxter's Supplier 
Code of Conduct and Baxter’s completion of corporate 
responsibility audits.
Implement prioritized waste mitigation 
opportunities * in Baxter's integrated supply 
chain, from procurement to distribution.   
*Identify prioritized waste generation sources by the  
end of 2024.   
PROTECT OUR PLANET
Prioritize operational excellence  
and environmental stewardship  
across our value chain
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE      •     HUMAN RIGHTS      •     INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY      •     PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTIONBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT14Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section (except the Patient Safety and Quality subsection).
PATIENT SAFETY AND QUALITY
Baxter’s commitment to patient safety and quality 
is unwavering, and both are fundamental to 
fulfilling our mission. We have extensive policies 
and processes to ensure excellence in these areas, 
and we continue to innovate new products and 
services that enhance patient safety and drive 
improved patient outcomes. We take a holistic, 
innovative approach to quality across the product 
life cycle, and our commitment to continuous 
improvement builds on decades of insight.  Product Innovation
 Improve sustainability and performance of products and services
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
Baxter develops products that save and sustain lives worldwide, delivering on our 
mission and representing our most important contribution to society. Our commitment 
to patient-centered safety and quality is integral to innovations that improve the 
experiences of patients and caregivers who use our products. By integrating 
sustainability into our product development approach, we consider the full life cycle 
of our products from design through end-of-life.
INTEGRATED APPROACH TO PATIENT SAFETY AND QUALITY
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14Patient Safety and 
Product QualityFacility Quality 
and Control
Quality Systems
Performancereduction in 
product 
complaints*19%
hospitals and facilities 
with recycling programs 
for some of Baxter's 
products377
products launched 
since 2015 that 
reduce materials 
use by at least 15%6
*Compared with 2015.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT15Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
As of the end 
of 2020, we had 
reduced product 
complaints by 19% 
compared with 
2015 (surpassing 
our goal of a 15% 
reduction) and made strides in several other areas 
over the same timeframe (see graphic above). With 
this report, we have expanded our data summary to 
include information about product recalls.
Collaboration within our company and with regulators 
helps ensure quality across the product life cycle.  
Key strategies of our multifaceted approach include:  
Manufacturing standards     We established a global 
initiative in 2020 to help us maintain and improve 
quality standards across our manufacturing sites. 
This initiative focuses on three primary areas: 
the physical facilities, critical systems used in the 
manufacturing of our products and mechanisms to 
ensure a continual state of control. By improving 
our process controls to address potential issues 
upstream, we can optimize our production lines and 
the effectiveness of equipment, minimize scrap and 
rework, and more consistently release high-quality 
products into the marketplace.Internal reviews    We employ multifunctional governing 
and operating mechanisms that aid us in performing 
in-depth technical evaluations, identifying necessary 
improvements to individual products and implementing 
those improvements across the globe. Our robust 
strategic reviews provide our cross-functional  leadership 
with improved visibility and a greater understanding 
of product safety and quality performance across the 
entire portfolio.
Resolution of Warning Letters     Since 2015, we have 
worked to resolve five U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) Warning Letters covering six facilities. We have 
one remaining Warning Letter, issued in July 2018, 
relating to the Ahmedabad, India, facility we acquired 
from Claris Injectables in July 2017.  
We Listen
Patients
Healthcare providers
Regulators
Suppliers
Manufacturing 
Innovation and trendsWe Deliver
Product changes 
Performance
Ease of use
Convenience
Education
For patients
For caregiversProduct 
Development 
and Innovation
Existing product 
improvements
New productsIn 2020, drawing on a wide range of internal and external inputs and management processes and systems, we implemented 
thousands of improvements to Baxter products. These improvements helped enhance product performance and reliability and 
increase convenience and ease of use to drive improved patient safety. PRODUCT QUALITY METRICS: PROGRESS FROM 2015 TO 2020 * 
* "Complaints" are any allegations related to the identity, quality, durability, reliability, usability, safety, effectiveness or performance of a product. “Complaint incidents” are the number of alleged product defects globally identified within product complaints. “Medical device reports” 
are reports submitted to U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of certain medical device malfunctions, serious injuries or deaths associated with the use of a medical device. “Field alert reports” are reports submitted to FDA for a specific drug application and defect category. 
“Field actions” include both recalled products and nonrecall actions taken on distributed products globally. All data include acquisitions and supplier-related data where integrated.Complaint 
incidentsField alert 
reportsField actions Medi cal device 
reportsComplaint s28%
reduc tion88%
reduction73%
reduc tion19%
reduc tion53%
reduction
Collaboration with FDA     Through our strategic 
engagement with FDA, we continue to pursue 
collaborative solutions to advance patient safety 
and ensure our products are of the highest quality, 
presenting the lowest possible risk to patients.  
We not only expanded our participation in the FDA 
Case for Quality Voluntary Improvement Program 
through the Center for Devices and Radiological 
Health, but also expanded our collaborative 
approach across FDA. In 2020, we entered the Quality 
Management Maturity Program through the FDA 
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Both 
programs aim to measure and advance the culture  
of quality at our design and manufacturing sites. 2020 GOALReduce 
product 
complaints 
by 15% Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT16Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
SUSTAINABLE DESIGN
Through the innovative, sustainable design of our 
products, we minimize our environmental impacts 
and capture the most value possible from the natural 
resources needed to manufacture, transport, use 
and recover our products. We have a long-term 
objective to transition from a linear approach of “take, 
make, dispose” to the circular approach illustrated 
in the graphic below. In addition to decreasing our 
environmental impact and that of our customers, this 
INNOVATING FOR SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE
Baxter recognizes the importance of transitioning from a linear to a circular approach that maximizes the value gained from 
materials, while improving environmental performance and the customer experience. We prioritize sustainability across the 
life cycle of our products as we aspire to a more circular model. 
Product Use
We design products to 
reduce energy demands and 
waste during use by 
customers, caregivers 
and patients.Product End-of-Life
We work to repair and reuse 
electromechanical medical 
products when possible and 
collaborate with partners 
around the world to recycle 
used products.Sustainable Design
We use Environmental, Health, 
Safety and Sustainability reviews 
and life cycle assessments to 
understand product environmental 
performance and requirements 
and drive ongoing improvements 
across the value chain.Materials Use
We innovate to reduce 
materials use in our 
products, decrease waste in 
manufacturing and 
packaging, and minimize use 
of materials of concern.Patient Safety
and Quality
We have an unrelenting 
dedication to patient safety 
and quality that is 
foundational to our mission  
and ongoing success.approach has the potential to reduce material costs 
and support growth by maintaining and expanding 
access to markets. 
We partner with others to understand customer needs 
and trends related to sustainable healthcare and help 
drive the industry forward. We are a founding member 
of the Sustainable Healthcare Coalition , and during 2020 
we collaborated to produce a case study  based on the 
life cycle assessment (LCA) we conducted in 2017 of 
our Viaflo 1 Liter Intravenous Solution.  
PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH, SAFETY 
AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW
To support our sustainable design efforts ,  
we require an Environmental, Health, Safety 
and Sustainability (EHS&S) assessment during 
the development process for all new products. 
This assessment evaluates EHS&S and 
regulatory considerations and requirements 
across our value chain. It also includes more 
detailed LCA-based computer modeling of 
proposed products and may involve comparison 
with existing products. Key metrics from the 
reviews demonstrate our progress in avoiding 
materials of concern, minimizing customer 
waste and reducing product carbon footprints. 
The EHS&S review helps us continually improve 
our operations, meet customer expectations 
and manage regulatory risk. 
For select new and established products, we 
use full LCAs to evaluate and improve product 
sustainability performance. See our 2018  
Corporate  Responsibility Report  for information 
about an LCA of our Revaclear and Theranova  
dialyzers.  BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT17Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
MATERIALS USE 
Materials use is a 
key driver of Baxter’s 
environmental 
footprint, and 
getting the most 
value possible from 
materials is central 
to our transition 
toward a more 
circular approach. To reduce materials use in products 
and packaging, we implement innovative projects and 
initiatives across our value chain. Since 2015, we have 
launched six products that reduced materials use by at 
least 15% without affecting efficacy, surpassing our 2020 
goal. These include our Spectrum IQ Infusion System, 
Evo IQ Infusion System, Kaguya automated peritoneal 
dialysis (APD) system cycler, Amia APD system 
cycler, Floseal Hemostatic Matrix and our premixed 
presentation of eptifibatide (a medication used for 
treatment of acute coronary syndrome).
2020 GOALReduce 
material 
use by 15% 
on three 
therapies/
products Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
ANESTHETIC GAS CAPTURE SYSTEM REDUCES GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG ) EMISSIONS
When patients receive inhaled anesthesia, they only metabolize a fraction of it. The rest is exhaled, 
contributing to GHG emissions in the atmosphere.
In 2020, Baxter announced a partnership with ZeoSys Medical to pilot the CONTRAfluranTM Anesthetic Gas 
Capture system in select European countries. This innovative technology captures 99%1 of the anesthetic  
gas exhaled by patients in operating rooms, preventing its release into the atmosphere and reducing hospital 
GHG emissions. Pending regulatory approval, the captured gas can then be sterilized and used as an active 
pharmaceutical ingredient for new anesthetic gas—creating a circular system for inhaled anesthetics. 
The anesthetics the system uses are packaged in lightweight, recyclable aluminum containers. The system 
also offers a measurable reduction in energy consumption and costs associated with an Anestheti c Gas 
Scavenging System (AGSS).2  
6Once regulatory approval is granted; 
the gas will be sterilized, extracted and 
separated for intended future use as an 
active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) 
for new anesthetic gas.
5The canisters are 
picked up and stored 
in environmentally 
safe conditions.
4SENSOfluranTM indicates
when canister is full
and should be replaced.3
As surgeries progress, exhaled gas will 
be captured in the canister. No longer 
does the exhaled gas move through the 
AGSS system into the atmosphere.2
CONTRAfluran™
canister is placed
into sensor unit.1
Baxter delivers CONTRAfluran™
canisters to the hospital, along with 
anesthetic gas bottles.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT18Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
PACKAGING
Baxter innovates 
to decrease the 
environmental impact 
of product packaging, 
without adversely 
affecting product 
safety or efficacy, by 
reducing the amount 
of materials used 
and substituting with environmentally preferable 
alternatives. From 2016 to 2020, we reduced packaging 
globally from products shipped to customers by 
2,128 metric tons,3 missing our 2020 goal. Reducing 
packaging material will remain a focus of our product 
sustainability strategy.
During 2020, we initiated several projects to reduce 
packaging, which we estimate will save nearly 
$260,000 and 149 metric tons of packaging material on 
an annualized basis. Examples include: 
• Our site in São Paulo, Brazil, reduced the 
dimensions of the cardboard box needed for IV, 
renal and irrigation solutions produced at the 
site by 6.3% and the size of the box divider by 
7.7%. These changes resulted in a reduction of 
116 metric tons of cardboard and approximately 
$70,000 in savings in 2020.
• In Cuernavaca, Mexico, the new adhesive we 
use to seal the cardboard shipping boxes for our 
peritoneal dialysis Twin Bag reduced packaging 
materials use by 3 metric tons and saved $19,000 
during the year. 
• In Sabiñánigo, Spain, we reduced the size of 
the Viaflo overpouch, avoiding 25 metric tons of 
multilayer plastic use and saving $93,000 in 2020.MATERIALS OF CONCERN
Our global strategies and programs help ensure that 
we meet product materials restrictions. In addition, 
we work to avoid or minimize materials of concern as 
part of our EHS&S product reviews and by consulting 
numerous regulatory lists. These regulations and lists 
include, but are not limited to: 
• EU REACH Substances of Very High Concern
• EU RoHS Directive
• EU Medical Devices Regulation
• U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act
• U.S. SEC conflict minerals
• California Proposition 65 
 During 2020, we 
launched non-DEHP 
products in all 
regions. This includes 
83 solution sets, 
syringe sets and 
accessories, and 
irrigation solutions 
using non-DEHP 
plasticizers in the 
Americas; Europe, 
Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC). We also launched the 
RoHS-compliant Evo IQ Syringe Pump in EMEA and 
APAC. Additionally, in EMEA, Baxter converted eight 
primary solution sets to use non-DEHP plasticizers 
and one accessory product to limit perfluorooctanoic 
acid (PFOA) in accordance with EU regulations. 
REDUCING MATERIALS USE AND PLASTIC WASTE
We reduce materials use when possible to 
decrease our environmental impact. In 2020, 
a project aimed at reducing materials use was 
implemented at our Irvine, California, site. The 
site reduced the dispenser pouch height for 
the Single Rate Infusor and Multirate Infusor 
Elastomeric devices, saving 3.2 metric tons of 
raw material and more than $63,000 annually. 
Plastic scrap from manufacturing is Baxter’s 
largest waste stream, so we focus our efforts on 
reducing plastic waste and increasing recycling. 
In 2020, our facility in Mountain Home, Arkansas, 
reduced plastic waste by approximately 400 
metric tons, despite a 3% increase in production. 
We accomplished this by reducing scrap in the 
film extrusion lines and increasing the amount 
of plastic that is reground back into the product.
See Waste  for additional information about plastic 
scrap reduction.
2020 GOALEliminate or minimize 
the presence of 
chemicals of concern 
(as defined by 
regulations) in new 
products
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchieved2020 GOALEliminate 3,000  
metric tons of 
packaging material 
from products shipped 
to customers
Not achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT19Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
Other substances we seek to avoid or minimize include 
endocrine disrupters, latex, phthalates, volatile organic 
compounds and others that might not be included in 
the lists above. See Baxter’s position statements on 
Proposition 65 , REACH , and conflict minerals , and our 
most recent Conflict Minerals Report .
STRIVING FOR FULL MATERIALS DISCLOSURE
Baxter's corporate responsibility approach prioritizes 
compliance with product chemical and medical device 
regulations. Working with a third party, we collect data 
from suppliers to determine the use of substances of very 
high concern (SVHC). This helps us to confirm compliance 
with global material regulations and assists us in 
proactively monitoring the impact that changes in global 
legislation might have on our product portfolio. We also 
continue to leverage third-party testing, which provides 
us with full material data and LCAs for many of our 
devices, helps validate device compliance with chemical 
legislation and provides information we need to respond to  
environmental questionnaires from customers. As of the 
end of 2020, we completed testing for 127 of our products, 
which covered more than 13,900 parts. This included many 
of our electromechanical devices, which are the most 
complex products in our portfolio in terms of number of 
parts and materials. 
Additionally, as a member of MedTech Europe , we  
are working with other multinational pharmaceutical/
medical device companies to drive full materials 
disclosure in global material compliance, and we 
contribute to several working groups. We support 
greater understanding of the hazardous substances 
requirements of the EU Medical Device Regulation by 
sharing information within Baxter and across the industry 
related to our full materials disclosure testing and 
analysis program, including materials commonly used in 
products that could potentially be replaced or eliminated. 
This supports consistent interpretation and efficient 
compliance with related regulations within the industry. To 
inform our efforts, we also monitor ongoing developments 
with the RoHS Directive and REACH Regulation.PRODUCT END-OF-LIFE
DISPOSABLE 
MEDICAL PRODUCTS
Baxter works to 
recapture valuable 
materials at the end 
of product life and has 
introduced several 
programs to facilitate 
recycling for patients 
and hospitals in 
Australia, New Zealand, Guatemala and Colombia. During 
2020, we increased the number of hospitals and facilities 
with recycling programs for some Baxter products to 377, 
up from 349 in 2019. Baxter collaborates with the Vinyl Council of Australia 
to offer a program in that country for the recovery of 
used Baxter PVC fluid bags. We also partner with waste 
collection companies in New Zealand to recover used 
Baxter PVC fluid bags, and with waste collection companies 
in both countries to recover aluminum anesthetic gas 
bottles. While we were able to increase the number of 
participating hospitals in 2020, the amounts collected 
during the year decreased compared with 2019 as hospital 
PVC recycling programs were suspended in New Zealand 
and the state of Tasmania in Australia due to COVID-19. 
In addition to the environmental benefits, we estimate 
that collection of PVC and aluminum during 2020 saved 
our customers approximately $102,000 that would have 
otherwise been spent on disposal.PVC AND ALUMINUM RECYCLING PROGRAMS FOR HOSPITALS AND DIALYSIS CLINICS, 2020
metric tons 
PVC collected 
for recycling  129
metric ton 
aluminum 
bottles recycled  1
hospitals248
hospitals66Australia
metric tons 
PVC recycled49.6
dialysis clinics45Colombia
metric tons 
PVC recycled16.5
hospitals and dialysis clinics24Guatemala
 PVC collection 
on hold due 
to COVID-19 n/a
metric ton 
aluminum 
bottles recycled  0.1
hospitals39
hospitals22New Zealand2020 GOALPartner to implement 
recycling of product 
waste at hospitals 
and increase 
participation to 200
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchievedBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT20Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
We have established a similar program in Guatemala 
in partnership with Biotrash, a Central American 
waste management company. Through the program, 
we collect and recycle PVC and other plastics from 
hospitals and dialysis clinics. As of the end of 2020, 
24 facilities were participating in the program, and 
Biotrash had recovered 16.5 metric tons of PVC 
and 2.7 metric tons of polypropylene. Biotrash 
recycles PVC to make shoe soles and uses recovered 
polypropylene to manufacture bricks for use in its 
own facilities.
Our Baxter Renal Care Services group in Colombia 
collects PVC for recycling from dialysis clinics and 
home dialysis patients. During 2020, we recycled 
49.6 metric tons of PVC from 45 dialysis clinics and 
14.7 metric tons of PVC from home dialysis patients 
through this program. We partner with organizations 
that use the recovered PVC to make chairs, water hoses, 
accessories for purses, shoe soles and other items. 
In Australia and New Zealand, we also assist patients 
who receive regular home deliveries of dialysis 
solutions to recycle related waste. As of the end 
of 2020, approximately 33% of Baxter peritoneal 
dialysis (PD) home patients in these countries (970 
patients, up from 935 in 2019) participated in the 
Home PD Recycling Program. Despite this increase 
in participation, overall collection volumes decreased 
as a result of the suspension of program collections 
due to COVID-19-related concerns. During 2020, the 
program collected approximately 8 metric tons of 
plastic for recycling.
We work with customers, industry peers and 
recycling and disposal vendors to facilitate the 
recycling and responsible treatment of disposable 
medical products. For example, Baxter is a charter 
member of the Healthcare Plastics Recycling  
Council (HPRC) . During 2020, we collaborated with 
other HPRC members to research the potential 
of advanced recycling technologies for the plastic used in healthcare products. This research 
is summarized in the white paper “ Advanced  
Recycling of Healthcare Plastics—An Opportunity  
for Circularity .” In 2020, HPRC launched the 
HPRC recycling vendor directory —a free, public, 
interactive directory designed to facilitate 
geography-specific collaboration between 
healthcare facilities and recycling vendors.  
ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT 
Some of the electromechanical medical devices we 
sell, such as renal APD cyclers, support progress 
toward the circular economy through serviceability, 
repair and reuse. We lease certain types of 
electromechanical medical products to customers 
and patients, which helps ensure they have the 
technology that best meets their needs and provides 
more flexibility than owning the devices. This model 
also ensures those products will be returned to 
Baxter after use for repair and reuse. 
Regulations in many countries worldwide require 
responsible recycling of electronic products when 
reuse is no longer an option. For example, the EU 
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) 
Directive requires manufacturers to arrange for 
the take-back of electronic products at end-of-life. 
In 2020, our vendors recovered approximately 180 
metric tons of electronic equipment in the region 
on Baxter’s behalf. Our WEEE website  provides 
customers detailed information on how to return 
or dispose of Baxter products in accordance with 
the directive.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT21Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
GLOBAL INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY FOCUS AREAS
Workforce  Attract and build diverse and high-
performing teams that are engaged and 
innovative. 
Workplace  Advance an inclusive culture, where 
every employee feels valued, respected 
and safe to be their authentic self. 
Communities  Cultivate strategic and diverse supplier 
and community partnerships. 
Marketplace  Consider the needs of customers and 
patients in all aspects of our business.
These standing priority areas inform our companywide 
approach to inclusion and diversity and also form the 
basis of our ACT: Activating Change Today initiative. 
21 BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORToverall manager 
effectiveness score, 
eight percentage 
points above the top 
quartile benchmark82%
training hours 
completed, an 
average of about 
18 hours per 
employee.*Approximately Global 
mentoring 
program 
introduced by business 
resource groups to connect 
diverse employees with 
company leaders 950,000
 *These data do not represent all employee training and development, but do capture a large portion of training for most employees.
Baxter fosters a high-performing, inclusive and diverse organization where our more 
than 50,000 employees1 worldwide are valued and pursue rewarding careers bringing 
the company’s mission to life. We listen to our employees and help them realize their 
full professional potential through our inclusion, diversity and engagement activities 
plus a wide range of learning and development opportunities.
GLOBAL INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY 
We actively create a workplace where all 
employees are confident that they belong 
and bring value to Baxter, including women, 
underrepresented minority groups, veterans, 
people with disabilities, early career 
professionals and the LGBTQ+ community. 
Our focus on attracting, motivating, retaining 
and championing an inclusive and diverse 
workforce drives innovation, creates trusted 
partnerships with customers, suppliers and 
community partners, and contributes to the 
success and sustainability of our business. Workplace Culture
Promote inclusion, diversity and employee engagementBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT22Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
The horrific actions against Black Americans in 2020 
underscored the importance of our inclusion and 
diversity commitment and prompted Baxter to drive 
meaningful, sustainable action to address racial 
injustice. Our ACT: Activating Change Today initiative 
was conceived in partnership with our Baxter Black 
Alliance business resource group to advance inclusion 
and racial justice within our workplace and the 
communities and markets we serve. While prompted by 
actions in the United States, the lessons and progress 
we make through ACT will help us address various 
forms of injustice globally.   
Through ACT, we are developing recruiting efforts in 
partnership with Black professional organizations 
and Historically Black Colleges and Universities and 
launching an internship program. We are also listening 
to employees about their experiences with racism, 
fostering courageous conversations about race with our leaders and working to address unconscious 
biases in our global human resources processes. In 
2021, we established Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a 
paid holiday for U.S. employees and encouraged our 
employees to use the day for community service. 
Find out more about ACT and related activities across 
our business on our website  and in the Introduction  
of this report. 
We prioritize the engagement, retention and 
advancement of women and underrepresented 
minorities. One initiative designed to accelerate this 
commitment is our Sponsorship Program, in which 
senior leaders actively advocate for and create 
opportunities for visibility and career growth for these 
segments of our employee base. In addition, our 
WoMentoring program supports women who have 
been newly hired or promoted into roles at the director level and above through mentoring relationships 
with other women in leadership.
In 2020, we established Workforce Diversity Reviews for 
all employees as part of our ongoing talent discussions 
with company leaders. Through these diversity reviews, 
we accomplish the following:
• Gain a better understanding of the organization’s 
diversity data and metrics, including gaps and strengths 
• Review development plans to ensure the right balance 
of critical experiences, sponsorship and mentoring 
relationships as well as networking opportunities and 
increased visibility to leadership
• Identify and discuss succession plans and candidate 
pipelines for critical roles 
• Review and discuss talent retention plans   
SETTING THE TONE
In addition to driving accountability and 
reinforcing a commitment to inclusion and 
diversity across our own organization, our CEO 
has also taken the following steps to engage 
outside of Baxter:
• 2020:  Became a signatory of the 
Disability:IN  “Are you IN?” campaign to 
help advance disability inclusion efforts
• 2019:  Signed the CEO Action for Diversity &  
Inclusion ™ pledge—the largest CEO-driven 
business commitment to advance diversity 
and inclusion in the workplaceTo gain a greater understanding of Baxter’s culture of inclusion, we invited employees globally to 
participate in our first annual inclusion and diversity pulse survey in February 2021.2 
Baxter is effectively responding to 
racial/social injustice in the workplace.  78%
Baxter is effectively responding to 
racial/social injustice in the marketplace.  77%
Baxter is effectively responding to 
racial/social injustice in our communities.  70%
I can be my authentic self with my 
direct manager.  85%
I feel as if I belong on my team.  85%I regularly seek out diverse perspectives 
in my work at Baxter.  81%
My direct manager reinforces the 
importanc e of valuing differences.  79%
In my work group, we check our personal 
biases to make the best decisions for Baxter.   75%
I am satisfied with my access to career 
advancement opportunities at Baxter.   62%BAXTER'S INCLUSION AND DIVE RSITY  SUR VEY RE SULTS, 2021*
* Data represent the percentage of employees who responded favorably to each statement. BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT23Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
During 2020, we 
remained at or above 
external benchmarks 
for women (globally) 
and ethnic minority 
representation (in 
the United States) at 
most career levels. 
We continue to work 
toward closing gender 
and ethnic minority gaps at executive levels. View our 
workforce data , which we have expanded to include 
additional detail about ethnic minority representation in 
the United States.
BOARD DIVERSITY
We are committed to further increasing the diversit y  
of our Board of Directors through strategic board 
refreshment efforts. Diversity of background, including  
diversity of gender, race, ethnic or geographic origin,  
age and experience (including in business, government 
and education as well as healthcare, science, technology 
and other areas relevant to the company’s activities) , is 
a relevant factor in the selection process. The last four 
appointments to our Board of Directors have been 
women or ethnic minorities. As of the end of 2020, our 
Board of Directors consisted of 25% women and 25% 
ethnic minorities. See information regarding board 
diversity on page 4 of Baxter’s 2021 Proxy Statement . 
GLOBAL INCLUSION COUNCIL
Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council (GIC) members 
serve as inclusion and diversity champions, advocates 
and thought leaders across the company. The GIC's 
mission is to focus on the advancement of women and 
underrepresented minority groups (including people 
of different races, ethnicities and sexual orientations 
as well as veterans and people with disabilities) and to 
drive inclusive leadership capabilities and culture.  The GIC is responsible for advocating and driving our 
global inclusion and diversity priorities, as well as  
developing and implementing local inclusion priorities. 
In early 2021, we formally embedded the GIC into Baxter’s 
leadership structure. The GIC now consists of members of 
our Senior Leadership Team and the executive sponsors 
of our business resource groups (BRGs). This change 
reinforces the importance of inclusion and diversity at the 
highest levels of our company and will help further align 
the activities of our GIC with those of our BRGs. 
BUILDING CULTURAL COMPETENCE
Baxter provides employees with training, tools and 
resources to build cultural awareness and competence, 
and engage more authentically with each other. Many 
employees also work on global teams, enabling them 
to build cultural competence through daily interactions, 
and we encourage employees to practice simple acts of 
inclusiveness in their day-to-day routines. 
We work to embed awareness of unconscious bias 
throughout our company and require all employees to take 
a self-guided e-learning module about unconscious bias. 
In addition, we have integrated prompts in key processes, 
such as talent assessment, succession planning, 
feedback and hiring, to help employees think about their 
biases as they undertake these activities. In 2020, we 
continued to implement “Pause and Discuss” during our 
hiring process—a structured discussion to help check for 
unconscious bias in the selection decision before moving 
forward with an offer. We have also established a target to 
ensure that at least 30% of the candidates in the interview 
slates for roles of manager or above are diverse, and we have 
initiated other checks to mitigate bias in hiring, including an 
automated process to collect interview feedback, guidance 
for valuing differences when assessing skills, and integration 
of a bias check into our global interview guide.  
BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS
Baxter’s BRGs are an important component of creating 
an inclusive and diverse culture within Baxter and 
advancing our priorities in the communities  where we live 
and work. These employee-run affinity groups support the 
recruitment, retention, engagement and development of 
diverse employees across Baxter. We have eight established 
BRGs and encourage all employees to get involved: the Asian 
Leadership Network, Baxter Black Alliance, Baxter EnAbles, 
Baxter Equality Network, Baxter Women Leaders, BaxVets, 
Early Career Professionals and Latinos@Baxter. 
During 2020, our BRGs continued to engage employees 
virtually throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. For instance, 
the Baxter Equality Network organized a global virtual 
pride parade and the Baxter Black Alliance hosted a 
virtual Juneteenth celebration. Baxter EnAbles supported 
Baxter’s first-ever monthly wellness day in October, which 
focused on mental well-being. Our BRGs also organized 
a variety of virtual career panels and discussions with 
executives to support employee development and elevate 
multicultural awareness.   
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
As an equal opportunity employer, Baxter prohibits 
employment discrimination or harassment of applicants, 
employees and third parties due to race, color, religion 
or religious creed, gender, national origin, ancestry, age, 
physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic 
information, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender 
identity or expression, military or veteran status or any other 
basis protected by law. 
Learn more  about inclusion and diversity at Baxter.2020 GOALAspire to diversity 
in leadership at or 
above benchmarks
Not achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
A virtual celebration opened a dialogue about the relevance of Juneteenth and how 
Baxter can continue to build an inclusive culture.VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT24Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
TRANSFORMING COMPANY CULTURE
Baxter's four culture levers—speed, simplicity, 
courage and collaboration—form the basis for our 
cultural transformation. We’ve embedded the levers 
into established processes ranging from job interviews 
to new employee orientations to monthly employee-
manager check-ins. During 2020, we continued to 
emphasize simplicity and employee safety as much 
of our office-based (nonmanufacturing) staff shifted 
to remote working environments due to the COVID-19  
pandemic. We supported our employees and kept 
them informed via regular communications, provided 
resources to help employees work effectively in 
virtual environments via our new WorkSmart Virtually 
program and encouraged a sense of community with 
the launch of monthly Wellness Days that empower 
employees to prioritize personal wellness.
Between 2016 and 2019, we conducted a Best Place 
to Work (BPTW) survey each year to measure the 
effectiveness of our programs and practices across 
several categories, including culture, professional 
development, employee engagement, inclusion and 
leadership, among others. We did not administer 
the survey in 2020 as we shifted our resources and 
energy toward the well-being of our employees and 
our company’s response to critical needs during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.  
During the four years we conducted the BPTW 
survey, our scores held steady or increased across 
the eight categories we measure. Because employee 
engagement is a significant priority for Baxter, we 
set a goal several years ago to achieve top quartile 
scores in that area by the end of 2020. Between 2016 
and 2019, our employee engagement score rose 
steadily each year. During 2019, the last year for 
which we have data from the survey, our score in the 
engagement category was five percentage points BAXTER’S MANAGER EFFECTIVENESS SURVEY RESULTS, 2020 *
higher than it was 
in 2016. It was also 
five percentage 
points above the 
global average and 
three percentage 
points below the top 
quartile benchmark 
for that year.3  While 
we had not yet 
achieved top quartile 
scores as of 2019, results demonstrated a positive 
trajectory, and we continue to prioritize engagement 
with our employees.  
In 2020, in lieu of the BPTW survey, we conducted a 
number of other employee surveys to help leadership 
understand how employees were feeling about 
important and timely topics. For instance, we sent employees a pulse survey in April to find out how 
they were feeling about working remotely and 
another in September to gather input about various 
issues related to returning to the office. 
We also invited employees to participate in two 
Manager Scorecard surveys to update our people 
manager effectiveness scores. These scorecards 
summarize anonymous feedback from employees 
about the effectiveness of their direct managers. 
Based on manager eligibility and employee 
participation, we were able to provide 79% of 
managers4  with an individual scorecard in June 
2020, and 82% of managers with a scorecard in 
November 2020. With responses from more than 
25,000 Baxter colleagues for the November survey, 
Baxter’s overall manager effectiveness score was 
82%, eight percentage points above the threshold 
for the top quartile benchmark. 2020 GOALAchieve an employee 
engagement score 
comparable to top 
quartile companies
Unavailable
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS  
My direct manager demonstrates high ethical standards in what she/he says and does. 87% 88% 78%
My direct manager cares about me as a person.  86% 86% 80%
I have enough flexibility at work to accommodate the needs/demands of my personal life. 83% 83% 73%
My manager gives me helpful feedback.  81% 81% 72%
My direct manager gives me regular feedback. 81% 81% 74%
My direct manager does a good job of managing people from diverse backgrounds. 80% 81% 75%
I am recognized when I do excellent work. 80% 80% 63%
My direct manager motivates me to do the very best I can in my job.  78% 79% 74%
Overall manager effectiveness score  82% 82% 74%Baxter Results
June
2020November
2020Top
Quartile **
*  Baxter data represent the percentage of employees who responded favorably to each statement. The overall manager effectiveness score is the average of the results   
 from the eight manager effectiveness statements. Surveys were administered via email. Employees without a Baxter email address, such as those in manufacturing,   
 did not participate.
** Top quartile data are from IBM Kenexa and represent more than 400 companies and more than 19 million responses.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT25Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT
Instead of annual performance ratings, Baxter 
embraces a continuous feedback model for 
performance management, which includes monthly 
check-ins between employees and their managers 
that focus on constructive feedback and career 
development. We've found that employees who 
take part in monthly check-ins have engagement 
rates that are 19 percentage points higher than 
employees who do not, based on our most recent 
Best Place to Work survey.
Furthermore, to help us better understand 
our global talent pipeline, we’ve expanded our 
talent review and planning process in the last 
several years to include not only senior leaders, 
but also managers, supervisors and a subset 
of our individual contributors. This expansion 
helps identify high-potential employees, mitigate 
retention-related risk and be more purposeful with 
our employee development plans. 
In addition to regular performance feedback 
and discussion, our talent development 
philosophy emphasizes continuous learning, 
relationship building, mentoring and enhancing 
work experiences. We provide virtual, online 
and classroom offerings worldwide on topics 
such as business/financial acumen, leadership, 
management, product knowledge and a wide 
range of job-specific skills. Throughout 2020, our 
SmartDevelopment program provided employees 
with professional development opportunities 
related to our culture lever of simplicity and 
strategies for well-being and working effectively 
while remote. For example, in line with our 
SmartMeeting guidelines, we introduced the 
BaxBrief to simplify meeting preparation, increase 
meeting effectiveness and reduce the overall 
number of meetings people attend. This one-page, 
memo-style document is sent before a meeting begins to outline its purpose, the background of the 
topic at hand and next steps for discussion or decision. 
In 2020, we recorded approximately 950,000 training 
hours, with an average of about 18 hours per employee.5
Mentoring
Baxter offers mentoring opportunities, resources 
and tools to all employees, including career advice 
and support, knowledge sharing and situational 
engagement based on employees’ needs. Any 
employee can participate in more than one mentoring 
relationship as a mentor or as a mentee. These 
engagements may include traditional, peer or reverse 
mentoring as well as mentoring circles conducted in 
a group setting. 
Our BRGs facilitate mentoring opportunities as well. 
For example, in 2020, Baxter’s eight BRGs introduced 
a new global mentoring program specifically designed 
to connect their diverse membership with leaders at 
the company. This program provides development and 
coaching opportunities for employees from a variety 
of ethnic backgrounds, genders, sexual orientations, 
disabilities and generations as well as those with 
veteran status. 
Learn more  about talent development at Baxter.
GLOBAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM 
Our employees' children can apply for merit-
based scholarships, funded by the Baxter 
International Foundation. A third-party agency 
evaluates student applications based on 
academic, extracurricular and employment 
accomplishments. Recipients receive a cash 
award, and scholarships may be renewed for 
up to three additional years.
new
scholarships77
countries
worldwide27
renewed
scholarships146BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT26Product 
InnovationEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction Workplace 
Culture
MANAGER AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
During 2020, Baxter continued offering a range 
of programs to engage our managers and drive 
effective leadership across the company. This 
includes programs related to change management, 
quarterly calls about culture change with Baxter’s 
CEO, development for mid-level leaders that show 
high potential, curriculum for senior leaders 
focused on driving cultural transformation through 
courageous leadership and a development program 
for manufacturing supervisors. In addition, our 
People Manager Development Program focuses 
on increasing manager effectiveness by building a 
culture of feedback with direct reports, managers 
and peers. Through this program, managers build 
critical skills to increase the effectiveness of their 
monthly check-ins with employees. The program 
uses a virtual learning approach that blends 
structured webinars and self-paced learning with 
real-world application and manager involvement. 
We incorporate the invaluable knowledge of our 
leadership team into the webinars by showcasing 
Baxter leaders sharing best practices based on their 
own experiences. In 2020, 80% of leaders globally 
participated in one or more of these leadership 
development programs. 
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
Baxter's total compensation philosophy is to provide 
market-competitive pay and benefits globally while 
rewarding employees for strong individual and 
business performance. A 2018 pay equity study of 
our U.S. salaried workforce found no significant 
pay differences among men, women and ethnic 
minorities. In addition, approximately 35% of our 
employees work in positions (largely in our plant 
locations) where salary levels are based solely on the 
job or the job and tenure, eliminating the possibility 
of pay equity discrepancies.  During 2020, we introduced new benefits to help 
employees cope with the impacts of COVID-19.  
For example, we rolled out a meditation app 
globally to help our employees prioritize mental 
health and well-being during this stressful time, 
and we provided employees in the United States 
with tutoring and childcare resources. 
Learn more about employee compensation and  
benefits  and executive compensation .
WORKPLACE FLEXIBILITY
Baxter recognizes the increasing demands on 
employees to manage their personal and work lives, 
and respects the need for different approaches 
to where, how and when work gets done. With 
tools and resources available for employees and 
managers to navigate ad hoc or ongoing flexible 
arrangements, employees are encouraged to 
discuss with their managers what options might be 
right for them and their jobs. During 2020, the majority of our office-based 
(nonmanufacturing) employees shifted to working 
from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic. To support 
this shift, we provided resources to help employees 
prioritize wellness and work-life balance as well as 
tips for using Baxter’s technology to stay connected 
and productive. For example, our WorkSmart Virtually 
resources help employees cultivate habits to work 
remotely with ease, connect with co-workers, build 
team effectiveness and lead through crisis with 
empathy and emotional intelligence.
Building on what we have learned and experienced 
about remote working during the pandemic, we have 
introduced a hybrid work arrangement, enabling 
employees to combine working from home with 
in-office visits to collaborate and connect in person. 
Learn more  about workplace flexibility at Baxter.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT27Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
As a global healthcare company with products sold in more than 100 countries, ethics and 
compliance is critical in everything we do. We prioritize being honest and fair, keeping 
promises, encouraging questions, valuing discussion and following legal requirements—
always reinforcing the importance of personal accountability and integrity. Patients, 
doctors, customers, regulators, investors, communities and our employees count on it.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27COMPANYWIDE ACCOUNTABILITY 
Baxter has compliance committees for each 
country or cluster of countries where we operate 
to further integrate ethics and compliance in 
strategic plans and day-to-day activities. To 
ensure the local implementation of our global 
ethics and compliance program, the business 
lead of each country/cluster holds mandatory 
quarterly meetings to facilitate discussion among 
local leadership about key issues, challenges and 
risks in their area. This approach, in conjunction 
with enterprise-wide established codes, policies, 
trainings and monitoring and assessment 
practices, enables us to more effectively target 
specific needs and drive ownership of and 
responsibility for ethics and compliance worldwide.DRIVING A CULTURE OF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
Continuous 
Improvement of 
the Ethics and 
Compliance ProgramEthics and
Compliance
Helpline and
InvestigationsAsssessments
and 
AuditsMonitoring
and 
Data AnalyticsPROACTIVE:    Design > Implement > Guide
Third 
Party 
Due 
Diligence
Training 
and
CommunicationGovernance 
and 
LeadershipPolicies 
and
Procedures
REACTIVE:    Detect > Prevent > Learn
Ethics and Compliance
 Drive a culture of integrity and the highest ethical behavior
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
Third Party 
Program training 
offered in        
              corruption-related 
enforcement 
actions0
of employees
completed
annual Code of
Conduct training97%
18
languagesBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT28Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Fostering a culture 
that values ethics and 
compliance is of the 
utmost importance 
to Baxter. In 2015, we 
established a goal to 
achieve top quartile 
compliance culture 
scores, which we 
measure through 
Baxter’s annual 
Best Place to Work (BPTW) survey. Although we did not 
conduct a BPTW survey in 2020 due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, results from the BPTW surveys conducted 
from 2016 through 2019 demonstrated consistent 
improvement in the area of ethics and compliance. During 
2019, the most recent year for which we have BPTW 
survey results, the scores for the two questions related 
to ethics culture improved, compared with the prior year, 
and were one percentage point above and two percentage 
points below top quartile companies, respectively.1  
While the companywide BPTW survey did not occur, we 
did survey our global Ethics and Compliance team in 2020 
regarding key elements of Baxter’s ethics and compliance 
program, including those that are typically measured 
by the BPTW survey. The results were positive and 
consistent with our expectations.  ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE TRAINING 
All employees are required to complete Code of Conduc t 
training annually. In 2020, 97% of employees completed 
the training. Select employees also complete online 
courses relevant to their jobs every other year on a 
rotational basis. These courses cover topics addressed 
in Baxter’s Global Interactions Policy and Third Party 
Program. In addition to the anticorruption content 
covered by the Code of Conduct and Global Interactions 
Policy training, our sales force participates in 
business-led, interactive workshops/trainings related 
to ethical interactions with the medical community  
and government officials, including discussion of 
real-life scenarios. 
THIRD PARTY PROGRAM
Baxter is committed to conducting business with 
integrity and in compliance with the law wherever we 
operate. Our Third Party Program policy and training 
outline the standards and processes used to review, 
retain and monitor new and existing third parties for 
compliance with our anticorruption expectations. 
The program and policy apply to Baxter employees, 
officers and directors involved in the review, retention 
and monitoring of third parties. We offer related 
training for Baxter employees in 18 languages.  
COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENTS  
Baxter completes risk-based compliance assessments 
and audits each year which cover antibribery, 
anticorruption and trade compliance, among other 
topics. Our Global Ethics and Compliance function 
selects locations to audit and assess based on factors 
such as business complexity, size, risk of corruption, 
the nature of interactions with the medical community 
and third parties, enforcement trends, and the results of 
compliance monitoring and investigations. Compliance 
assessments and audits also focus on relationships with 
third parties that represent the company to customers, including the medical community, patients and 
government officials and entities.
In 2020, we conducted two compliance assessments  
using Global Audit and Ethics and Compliance resources: 
one in our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region 
and one in Latin America. These assessments were 
performed remotely as a result of COVID-19. We had also 
scheduled an assessment for Asia Pacific (APAC) in 2020, 
which we have deferred to 2021. 
Additionally, we performed remote compliance audits 
of 15 distributors globally during 2020. The audits 
covered six distributors in EMEA, five in Latin America 
and four in APAC.
COMPLIANCE MONITORING   
Baxter has deployed a data analytics-based monitoring 
system in 32 key countries around the world, including 
Brazil, China, India and Russia. This system enables 
us to perform near-real-time monitoring of metrics 
related to travel, entertainment and interactions with 
healthcare professionals and government officials. 
Transactions identified as potentially problematic are 
reviewed by the Ethics and Compliance investigation 
team as appropriate. 
Moving forward, our objective is to perform more 
in-depth, forensic-based monitoring on a select number 
of higher risk countries. This will be performed on a 
rotational basis to continue to expand our risk coverage.
Baxter had zero 
corruption-related 
enforcement actions 
in 2020. 2020 GOALAchieve overall 
compliance culture 
scores in the top 
quartile of general 
industry benchmarks
Unavailable
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
2020 GOALAchieve zero 
government 
enforcement  
actions over 
compliance 
issues. Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT29Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
RELATIONSHIPS WITH HEALTHCARE 
PROFESSIONALS AND GOVERNMENT 
OFFICIALS
Baxter is committed to transparent reporting about 
relationships with the medical community and 
government officials. This includes the continued 
implementation of anticorruption programs to ensure  
that those relationships and the related fair market value 
payments are for necessary and genuine services. Our 
Global Interactions Policy  defines the principles and rules 
governing our interactions with government officials and 
members of the medical community. 
The Global Interactions Policy also provides guidance 
for corporate charitable giving to ensure compliance 
with the law and with Baxter policy. We have Local 
Contributions Management Committees in select 
countries, clusters of countries or regions. Where they exist, those local committees have decision-making 
authority for charitable contribution requests from 
nonprofit and for-profit healthcare and patient 
organizations. The Baxter International Foundation, 
the philanthropic arm of Baxter International Inc., is 
a separate legal entity governed by its own Board of 
Directors and has distinct grantmaking guidelines 
that outline policies for charitable contributions to 
nonprofit organizations. 
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE 
In 2020, Baxter logged 727 reports from 41 countries 
into our Ethics and Compliance Helpline system 
and closed 700 cases that were received through 
2020.2 All reports received during the year involving 
allegations of misconduct were promptly triaged for 
investigation. More than 65 of the reports logged 
in 2020 raised questions or concerns relating to COVID-19 and were assigned to other teams (such 
as Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
or Human Resources) for resolution or further 
investigation. Of the substantiated cases closed 
in 2020, appropriate remediation (e.g., training or 
adoption of new or changed processes) was or is 
being implemented where warranted. In substantiated 
cases involving employee misconduct, employees 
received appropriate disciplinary action based on 
the nature of the misconduct and other factors. 
Disciplinary action can include a range of outcomes, 
including coaching and training, verbal or written 
warnings, compensation reduction or termination. Work Environment/Employee Relations 57%
Manufacturing/EHS&S/R&D/Regulatory/Quality 24%
Conflict of Interest  5%
Interactions with Government Officials Including HCPs/HCOs (outside the United States)  4%
Marketing and Sales  4%
Financial Management and Reporting  3%
Asset or Information Misuse or Misappropriation/Confidential Data  2%
Competitive Practices <1%
Payments/Gifts/Entertainment with HCPs/HCOs (United States)  <1%Category % of total*ITEMS REPORTED TO THE ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE IN 2020
* "HCPs" are healthcare professionals. "HCOs" are healthcare organizations. Puerto Rico is counted as part of the United States.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT30Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTION  
Baxter is committed to respecting the privacy of our 
patients, employees and customers. Baxter’s Global 
Privacy Policy defines our privacy standards and 
guides our global operations to follow similar controls 
for protecting personal information. During 2020, we 
closely followed market developments and enforcement 
actions related to the EU General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) as we collaborated with our network 
of privacy experts across the EU to successfully address 
the regulation. In 2020, we also continued to monitor 
proposed changes to privacy legislation and regulations 
in other locations to assess the impact on Baxter and to 
implement changes to our privacy control framework as 
we prepared to comply with new privacy requirements. This included the California Consumer Privacy Act, for 
which additional amendments and regulations were 
issued. We also closely monitored privacy issues arising 
out of the COVID-19 pandemic, including laws and 
regulations addressing testing and contact tracing, to 
assess the impact on Baxter as the company took steps 
to address the pandemic.
Management and oversight of IT security is a priority 
for Baxter’s senior management. Our Information Risk 
Committee, co-led by our Chief Privacy Officer and our 
Chief Information Security Officer, ensures Baxter's 
privacy and security efforts are aligned with the 
company's broader business initiatives and that our 
business leaders are aware of changing regulatory or 
technical risks. In addition, two separate committees 
of our Board of Directors oversee our IT security program  
strategy and efficacy and receive regular updates. The  
Audit Committee provides oversight for IT security 
matters generally and the Quality, Compliance and 
Technology Committee provides oversight for product 
cybersecurity matters.
Baxter's Digital Security Policy outlines our approach 
to information security and the standards we require 
employees and suppliers to follow. We also provide an 
online Product Security summary  that customers can 
access to learn about security vulnerabilities that might 
affect Baxter products. 
In response to growing and changing cyber threats, 
we consistently assess and strengthen our cyber 
defenses and response capabilities. The Global IT 
Security Operations team helps to protect Baxter against 
cyberattacks using a range of defenses that secure our 
assets, reduce detection time and improve recoverability. 
During 2020, we implemented a new threat hunting 
process to enhance the protection of our systems 
against evolving security threats. We also enhanced our 
Governance Risk and Compliance program to include 
risk-based reviews and due diligence monitoring.  
We continue to raise security awareness with all 
Baxter users through mandatory training and recurring 
reinforcement through virtual events and updated 
materials. We require multifactor authentication and an 
always-on virtual private network (VPN) system to provide 
additional safeguards for our employees working remotely. 
In addition, during 2020, we expanded our Third Party 
Risk Management program to include review of security 
standards and procedures for critical external suppliers. 
Baxter’s Digital Security Controls Framework has been 
formally documented and conforms to the industry 
standard NIST 800 and ISO27001 frameworks. Baxter has 
received ISO27001 certification and renewed the French 
HDH Certification for Sharesource connectivity platform.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT31Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.Employee Health and Safety
 Achieve a zero-harm workplace and improve employee well-being
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
In pursuit of Baxter’s aspiration to be a Best Place to Work, we provide a safe workplace 
and the resources employees need to maintain and improve their health and wellness. 
In 2020, we focused our programs on a robust pandemic response as well as supporting 
employee participation in health and wellness activities. As we delivered on Baxter's 
mission to save and sustain lives in facilities around the world, we also prioritized our 
employees’ physical, social and mental well-being.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31Baxter follows a management-systems 
approach guided by our global Environmental, 
Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) 
requirements. For more about Baxter’s EHS&S 
management system, see Operations . We clearly 
define the responsibilities of corporate, regional 
and facility-level occupational health and safety 
professionals and hold leaders accountable 
for achieving goals and targets. In 2020, 
the EHS&S organization reported employee 
safety performance to senior leadership and 
manufacturing and supply chain management 
monthly. EHS&S also communicates 
performance to Baxter's Board of Directors.INJURY AND 
ILLNESS 
PERFORMANCE1 
In 2020, due to COVID-19,   
Baxter experienced 
an increase in total 
recordable incident 
rate (TRIR) and cases 
with days lost rate from 
the prior year. In a comparison of 23 companies globally 
across all industries,2 Baxter’s TRIR during the year 
ranked thirteenth. Although we did not achieve top quartile  
performance in 2020, we did in 2018 and 2019.*Compared with 2019.52%Restricted days rate 
employees participated  
in the virtual 
BeWell@Baxter 
Exercise Challenge14,000
*Introduced
monthly 
wellness 
days emphasizing 
physical, mental and 
social well-being
2020 GOALAchieve the top  quartile  
in total recordable 
incident rate among 
global companies 
across all industries
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSNot achievedBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT32Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
INJURIES AND MAJOR INCIDENTS
When a major incident occurs at Baxter, facility 
management conducts a root-cause analysis and 
formulates mitigation strategies. We review incidents 
with a cross-functional team to share knowledge 
across the organization. Major incidents are defined as 
those that result in an employee or contractor being 
hospitalized overnight (for more than observation), 
sustaining an amputation, or dying. 
Twelve major incidents occurred at Baxter in 2020, 
compared with six in 2019. Baxter attributes the 
increase to hazards that had not been identified. The 
company had no fatalities during the year.
RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE AND CASES WITH DAYS LOST RATE *
DAYS LOST RATE AND RESTRICTED DAYS RATE 2018 2019 2020
Recordable Incident Rate  0.41 0.39 0.41
Cases With Days Lost Rate  0.084 0.086 0.1740.00.10.20.30.40.5
0246810
 2018 2019 2020
Days Lost Rate  2.88 2.14 4.80
Restricted Days Rate  6.20 7.83 3.77DRIVING A CULTURE OF SAFETY  
AND ENGAGEMENT
We aspire to achieve a zero-harm-workplace. In 2020, 
we continued to engage our operational workforce in 
hazard identification and immediate corrective actions 
where feasible. Injury and illness metrics coupled with 
internal EHS&S audits provide focus for Baxter's safety, 
occupational health and industrial hygiene efforts. We 
continue to target ergonomics, and slips, trips and falls—
two of the primary sources of injury at the company. 
In 2020, we continued to focus on high-hazard sources, 
which are conditions or situations that could cause major 
injury or death. We analyzed our most severe historical 
incidents to identify root-cause trends and started holding 
“stand down” meetings as a forum for operational leaders 
to engage employees in frontline education concerning 
specific risks. During these meetings, all other 
operational activity stops so employees can focus on an 
emerging trend or specific risk.
HEALTH AND WELLNESS PROGRAM 
MANAGEMENT AND INITIATIVES
Baxter’s occupational health function, in partnership 
with Human Resources and Global Communications, 
develops health and wellness strategies for the 
company. A global team of diverse health professionals 
and volunteers, known as Local Champions, helps refine 
and implement these approaches and set priorities.
BEWELL@BAXTER
Healthy employees are more engaged 
and productive and less vulnerable 
to safety incidents and injuries. 
Through BeWell@Baxter, our global employee health 
and wellness program, we strive to create a culture that 
raises awareness and promotes healthy lifestyles. 
In response to COVID-19, BeWell@Baxter provided a 
heightened focus on health and wellness and continued to 
drive engagement, while complying with local regulations. Health and wellness during the pandemic was more 
important than ever, so we transitioned our campaigns to 
virtual and launched monthly wellness days to emphasize 
the importance of well-being, including physical, mental 
and social aspects.
The cornerstone of BeWell@Baxter is the Personal 
Wellness Profile, an online health risk assessment 
that helps employees understand how lifestyle choices, 
family history and other factors influence health and 
related risks. We use this data to focus our health 
promotion program on the areas of highest health risk 
for employees. As of the end of 2020, 35% of employees 
worldwide had completed a Personal Wellness Profile.3  
In 2020, more than 14,000 employees participated in the 
virtual BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge. In addition, 83%  
of facilities worldwide took part in Healthy Eating Month.
During the year, Baxter 
recorded an average 
employee participation rate 
of 49% in BeWell@Baxter  
health promotion initiatives , 
exceeding our 2020 goal 
of 45% participation. 
BeWell@Baxter initiatives  
include the Personal 
Wellness Profile, the 
Exercise Challenge and Healthy Eating Month.
ADDITIONAL PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES  
FOR EMPLOYEE HEALTH
Baxter’s occupational health team also works to continually 
improve the company’s performance with the following 
programs and initiatives: 
Flu vaccinations     In 2020, we offered free seasonal flu  
vaccinations to employees working at most sites with  
25 or more employees. More than 12,000 employees 
worldwide received vaccinations through this program.  
Smoke-free workplaces     In 2020, in countries where 
smoke-free status is allowed by law, 100% of campuses with 
25 or more employees were smoke-free, the same as in 2019.
2020 GOALIncrease participation 
from 35% to 45% 
in BeWell@Baxter 
health promotion 
program initiatives
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchieved
* Rates include COVID-19 cases. Public health guidance varies around the world concerning 
isolation and quarantine days for COVID-19. Probable work-related COVID-19 cases average  
10 days lost per CDC guidance and account for days away from work due to the illness.
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT33Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Operations
 Reduce environmental footprint through increased efficiency and resource conservation
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.2020 HIGHLIGHTS
reduction in 
energy use*8.2%
reduction in 
water use*10.4%
reduction 
in waste 
generation *14.7%
reduction in 
absolute 
greenhouse gas 
emissions**13.6%
*Compared with 2015 and indexed to revenue. **Compared with 2015. 
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33At Baxter, we are committed to driving sustainability throughout our global manufacturing  
operations.1  We strive to use energy, water and raw materials efficiently, while reducing 
waste and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This improves environmental performance 
while saving money and demonstrating environmental leadership. 
Our Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) vision is to achieve a sustainable enterprise that creates 
stakeholder value by advancing superior environmental stewardship, optimum employee health and well-being,  and 
a zero-harm workplace. Baxter’s EHS&S Policy  outlines our commitments within operations and across the value 
chain. Our EHS&S governance structure helps us achieve our goals and create long-term business value. 
Progress toward our 2020 environmental goals launched in 2015 is shown in the graph below. Related challenges 
and opportunities are described on the pages that follow.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2015
(baseline)2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2015
(baseline)Metric Tons CO2e % Change, Indexed to Revenue GHG Emissions Energy Use
Water Use
Waste Generation
-15%
-20%-10%-5%0%2020 Goals: -15%2020  Goal: -10%
-15-10-505
550,000600,000650,000700,000750,000PROGRESS TOWARD 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS *
* Energy use and GHG emissions data for 2015–2019 are restated from data reported in the Baxter 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report to improve accuracy and 
to reflect updated GHG emission factors.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT34Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND  
SAFETY PERFORMANCE  
We follow a management-systems approach guided by 
our global EHS&S requirements. We apply the ISO 14001 
standard to manage our environmental aspects and the 
ISO 45001 standard to manage our health and safety 
hazards and risks.   
As of year-end 2020, 59 Baxter locations met ISO 14001 
requirements, of which 44 also achieved ISO 45001. Of 
these 59 total certified locations, 45 are manufacturing 
sites (86.5% of total Baxter manufacturing locations2).
Baxter’s EHS&S audit program helps to ensure that our 
facilities have programs that satisfy applicable regulatory 
requirements and are consistent with our EHS&S 
requirements, objectives and goals. In 2020, third-party 
EHS&S audits were conducted at 16 facilities.3  
In 2020, we received six environmental Notices of Violation 
(NOVs), a decrease from 22 in 2019. All NOVs were received 
at facilities in North America and Puerto Rico. A fine of 
$861.16 was related to one NOV at our facility in Marion, 
North Carolina. We also received two health and safety 
letters during the year at facilities in the United States. 
We paid $3,450 for a health and safety fine associated 
with our Opelika, Alabama facility. Baxter takes incidents 
of EHS&S noncompliance seriously and is working 
diligently to address the root causes of these issues.
We also took significant steps during 2020 to re-affirm 
our commitment to environmental compliance. During 
the year we filled several key EHS&S roles, including the 
vice president of EHS&S, as well as other key leadership 
positions in environmental programs and EHS&S 
governance. These leaders will provide a foundation for 
our next-generation transformational journey.  
ENERGY
Energy is one of our most significant manufacturing costs, 
so energy conservation benefits our business as well 
as the environment. Using energy effectively conserves 
natural resources, improves environmental performance and enhances business efficiency. Reducing fossil fuel 
combustion decreases GHG emissions, improves air 
quality and decreases fine particulates that contribute to 
adverse health effects. Renewable energy procurement  is 
also integral to our overarching climate strategy. 
The Baxter global energy program applies the ISO 50001  
standard to the company’s facility-level energy management 
systems. By the end of 2020,19 Baxter facilities (40% of 
participating locations) met ISO 50001 requirements.
In 2020 , we used  10,101 trillio n 
joules of energy , 8.2% less 
than in 2015 indexed to 
revenue, missing our 2020 
goal to reduce total energy 
use by 15% indexed to 
revenue. Key factors for why 
we did not meet the goal 
included changes to 
enhance resilience in manufacturing in order to mitigate 
supply chain disruption from extreme weather events.   
We will continue to focus on energy efficiency as part of 
Baxter’s GHG emissions reduction strategy moving forward.
Energy use includes electricity, fuel and purchased steam 
consumed by Baxter-managed and Baxter-operated 
facilities; it excludes energy related to company-operated 
vehicles. In 2020, we increased absolute energy use by 
1% compared with 2019, due mainly to facility changes 
and production increases. During that period, energy use 
indexed to revenue decreased by 2%. 
Our energy costs dropped 2% between 2019 and 2020, 
down $3 million, due to a significant decrease in natural 
gas prices, as well as energy efficiency initiatives. 
Site-specific energy assessments identify opportunities 
to conserve energy and to apply and share new 
technologies and best practices across the company.  
In 2020, we were unable to perform energy assessments  
due to COVID-19-related travel restrictions. To continue  
to identify potential energy projects and drive project 
performance, we implemented monthly meetings with 
global energy managers and regional engineering 
executives, and we conducted cross-facility benchmarking  exercises focused on energy conservation opportunities 
within the regions and businesses.
During 2019 and 2020, we implemented 340 energy 
conservation projects across our manufacturing sites 
globally. We estimate that these projects saved 155 trillion 
joules of energy and $4.1 million and avoided 13,600 metric 
tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) of GHG emissions 
during 2020.4 This was equivalent to 2% of our net GHG 
emissions from global operations during the year.  
We have operated a Lean Energy Program for our 
manufacturing facilities since 2007. It includes four 
levels—Prerequisite, Bronze, Silver and Gold—and 
facilities meet the criteria for lower levels as they  
advance in pursuit of Gold. Each level includes program 
requirements, standards of operational excellence and 
technical requirements. By year-end 2020, 38 of 47 
facilities5 met prerequisite criteria. Of those, 30 also met 
Bronze, 19 met Silver and 4 met Gold.ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS *2020 GOALReduce total energy 
use by 15% indexed 
to revenue
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSNot achieved
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY AND  
VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG  
EMISSIONS TABLE FOR MORE DETAIL.estimated CO 2e of 
GHG emissions avoided 13,600During 2020 :
estimated savings
metric tons$4.1
trillion joules million 155projects implemented 
2019-2020340
* Estimated energy and financial savings as well as GHG emissions avoidance are 
calculated for the 12 months following project implementation.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT35Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
WATER AND WASTEWATER
Water is a valuable resource, and water issues continue  
to grow in importance worldwide. Although these 
concerns are global, they must be addressed at the 
local and regional levels. Baxter works to better 
understand the impacts of water use across our value 
chain and implements conservation and efficiency 
projects at our manufacturing facilities. See our response  
to CDP Water Security . 
We reduced water 
consumption by 10.4% 
indexed to revenue 
from 2015 through 
2020, missing our 
2020 goal of a 15% 
reduction. Energy use 
and water processing 
are closely related in 
our facilities; therefore, 
the changes in manufacturing that contributed to 
missing our energy goal (as described previously) were 
similar to those for our water goal.
During 2020, we withdrew approximately 14 million 
cubic meters of water,6 about the same as in 2019 and 
a 3% decrease indexed to revenue. 
Water is a key raw material for Baxter, and we have 
implemented numerous water-reduction projects since 
2015. As part of our water management strategy going 
forward, we will assess the physical, regulatory and 
reputational risks associated with our water use to 
continue operating successfully and responsibly.
Water issues vary significantly by location. In 2020, we 
applied the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct  
Water Risk Atlas version 3.0  to map and analyze current 
and future risks associated with water stress at our 
most significant water-use locations.  The WRI water 
tool defines baseline water stress as total annual water 
withdrawals (municipal, industrial and agricultural) expressed as a percent of total annual available flow. 
Higher values indicate more competition among users.7 
Our 55 most significant water-use locations represented  
97% of our total water use in 2020. Of the 55 sites,  
25 are located in medium-high , high  and extremely high  
water-stress areas. During the year, facility water use 
at these sites decreased by 1% in absolute terms and by 
3% indexed to revenue compared with 2019.
WASTEWATER
Wastewater discharged from Baxter operations has 
historically been, and remains, an important focus of 
our compliance program. In 2020, 70% of Baxter’s self-
reported environmental incidents were exceedances 
of permitted wastewater discharge limits; 75% of 
those were from the Americas region (North America 
and Latin America) and the remaining 25% from the 2020 GOALReduce total water 
use by 15% indexed 
to revenue
Not achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSBAXTER SITES IN LOCATIONS WITH WATER STRESS RISK 
   
Site Location Med-High High Extremely High
Australia 2  
Belgium   3
Brazil  1 
China 1 2 
Germany 1 3 
India   1
Malta    1
Mexico   3
Spain 1  
Thailand 1  
Tunisia  1 
UK  1 
United States 1 1 1Europe, Middle East and Africa region. None of these 
exceedances resulted in a fine. To manage these matters, 
Baxter applied both internal and external resources 
and worked to enhance internal wastewater operational 
practices, training and other facility engagement 
opportunities. Baxter also upgraded wastewater 
pretreatment infrastructure at several facilities in 2020. 
As part of our proactive commitment to compliance, 
Baxter has adopted a more aggressive approach to 
wastewater operations and enhanced how we identify, 
evaluate and manage wastewater issues. Our systematic 
wastewater risk management program identifies 
emerging issues. In 2020, this involved a holistic review 
of major manufacturing locations that included the 
following activities: 
• Engaged an expert third party to review compliance 
measures at the highest priority facilities
• Evaluated effectiveness of facility change management 
processes for wastewater operations  
• Reviewed wastewater compliance history and recent 
data to identify possible trends
• Assessed wastewater permit compliance procedures 
and made recommendations 
• Validated methods to investigate and remedy causes 
of upset conditions and ensure their effectiveness
• Affirmed ongoing employee awareness of wastewater 
operations and roles in assuring compliance 
• Conducted supplementary training at various facilities
We will share best practices across our operations based 
on lessons learned from our highest priority facilities. 
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT36Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
WASTE
Baxter identifies leading waste reduction opportunities 
based on our highest-volume waste streams, facilities 
that produce the most waste, and sites with strong 
potential to improve, among other factors. Facilities 
measure waste at the point of generation to rapidly 
identify significant sources. We track and analyze waste 
data from each major facility to assess progress toward 
waste reduction goals and identify ways to improve 
processes that generate waste. These and other 
activities reduce expenses related to raw materials use, 
waste handling and disposal. 
During 2020, our 
operations generated 
69,700 metric tons of 
total waste, similar to 
2015 in absolute terms 
and down 14.7% indexed 
to revenue,8 just short 
of our goal of a 15% 
reduction. As part of 
our future goals, we plan to further assess how waste is 
generated throughout Baxter’s integrated supply chain 
and to establish management plans to address impacts 
internally, upstream and downstream.
Our operations generated 63,500 metric tons of 
nonhazardous waste during 2020, a 1% increase in 
absolute terms and a 2% decrease indexed to revenue, 
compared with 2019. 
Reducing plastic waste and increasing recycling is a 
priority for Baxter; plastic scrap from manufacturing is 
our largest waste stream, representing roughly one third 
of our nonhazardous waste. In 2020, several facilities 
implemented projects to reduce plastic scrap. For 
example, our facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico, reduced 
PVC and HDPE plastic waste material by 78 metric tons 
during the year through process improvement techniques 
such as Six Sigma. See Materials Use  for an additional 
example of reducing plastic scrap. Baxter also innovates to reduce the environmental 
impact of product packaging. Read more in 
Product Innovation . 
Regulated waste9 represented 9% of Baxter’s total 
waste during 2020. Over the course of the year, our 
operations generated 6,200 metric tons of regulated 
waste, 32% lower in absolute terms than in 2019, 
and 34% less indexed to revenue. This reduction 
was mainly due to a project implemented in 2020 
at our facility in Hechingen, Germany, based on a 
similar project at our facility in Opelika, Alabama. 
The project modified the solvent recovery process, 
thereby eliminating the residual ultrafiltration-
related waste stream. This reduced regulated waste  by 
more than 2,230 metric tons in 2020 and decreased 
energy use by 14.4 trillion joules per year.
In 2020, we recycled 79.5% of nonhazardous 
waste and 49.6% of regulated waste for an overall 
recycling rate of 76.8%.10 Recycling at Baxter 
generated $2.3 million in net income in 2020.2020 GOALReduce total waste 
generation by 15% 
indexed to revenue
Not achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSIn 2020, 25 
manufacturing sites11 
(49% of the total) 
achieved or exceeded 
landfill diversion 
rates of 95%, missing 
our goal to achieve 
or exceed that level 
at all manufacturing 
sites. Twelve 
additional sites (25% of the total) achieved diversion 
rates of 80% or higher. We continue working with outside 
experts to accelerate progress in the coming years.
GHG EMISSIONS ACROSS THE  
VALUE CHAIN
Climate change is among the most pressing global 
challenges facing the world today, posing risks for 
humans and natural ecosystems. We identify, manage 
and mitigate Baxter’s climate-related risks as part 
of our global risk management activities. In addition 
to addressing climate change with an aggressive 
GHG emissions reduction strategy, we are focused 
on protecting our stakeholders by building resilience 
to climate change across our supply chain. For more 
information on our governance, strategy and risk 
management as recommended by the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, see our 
response to CDP Climate Change  and our Climate  
Change & Energy Position Statement . 
We began reporting our Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain 
Scope 3 GHG emissions in 1997 and contributed to the 
development of the initial version of the Greenhouse  
Gas Protocol . 2020 RECYCLING AT BAXTER
net income 
generatedregulated 
waste recycled$2.3
million49.6%
nonhazardous 
waste recycled79.5%
overall recycling rate76.8%
2020 GOALAchieve a landfill 
diversion rate of 95%  
or higher at all 
manufacturing locations
Not achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT37Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
We estimate our 2020 GHG emissions footprint (Scope 1, 
2 and 3) at 4.5 million metric tons CO2e,12 down 7% from 
2019. The main contributing factor to this decrease was 
reduced sales and production of certain products in 2020.
Since 2015, we have offset GHG emissions related to 
global business travel with United Airlines through 
the CarbonChoice program . During 2020, this included 
1,300 metric tons CO2e offset on Baxter’s behalf through 
the Maísa REDD+ – Sustainable Travel International project  
(reducing GHG emissions associated with deforestation 
and forest degradation), a Verified Carbon Standard, and 
a Climate Community & Biodiversity Standards project in 
the Brazilian Amazon.
GHG EMISSIONS FROM OPERATIONS
Through 2020, we 
reduced our absolute 
GHG emissions from 
operations by 13.6% 
compared with 2015, 
exceeding our goal 
of a 10% reduction. 
Total emissions from operations equaled 611,000 
metric tons CO2e in 2020. BAXTER’S GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOOTPRINT, 2020
Scope 1   Facility/Vehicle Fuel Usage
 and Refrigerant Losses 6.9%
Scope 2   Purchased Energy 6.7%
Scope 3   Purchased Goods
 and Services 18.4%
Scope 3   Use of Sold Products 44.8%Scope 3   Other 13.6%
Scope 3   Upstream Transportation
 and Distribution 9.6%4,493 ,000 
metric tons CO2e
Reducing energy  use is vital to our sustainability 
strategy, as energy use accounts for 99% of Baxter's 
GHG emissions from operations. Other tactics to 
decrease GHG emissions in 2020 included fuel switching, 
cogeneration, on-site renewable energy systems, 
renewable power procurement and green buildings .
By the end of 2020, 28% of our energy use for operations 
was from renewable sources. Biomass fuel for boilers 
at two of our locations13 accounted for 10%, and the 
renewable energy component of purchased electricity and 
renewable energy certificates together represented 18%.  
On-site geothermal, solar photovoltaic and solar hot 
water systems contributed a small amount. 
Baxter's energy procurement team works with our 
suppliers to source sustainable and economical energy 
for our manufacturing facilities. Globally in 2020, 
we purchased more than 368,000 MWh of electricity 
generated from 100% certified renewable power, 
including all electricity purchased in Illinois. 
We were recognized  as 
the 35th largest corporate 
purchaser of renewable 
energy in the United States 
during the year.14  Since 2007, we have maintained 
carbon neutrality at our headquarters in Deerfield, 
Illinois, through electricity generated from certified 
renewable energy sources. We offset facility-related 
emissions from purchased electricity. During 2020, we sourced 220,000 MWh of 100% renewable 
electricity for our European manufacturing sites. This 
represented 97% of total electricity for manufacturing 
in the region. In most cases, savings from our energy 
sourcing strategy in Europe finance the premium for green 
electricity contracts.
AIR EMISSIONS
Baxter has reduced emissions of hazardous air pollutants 
significantly during the last several decades as it has 
been an area of focus since 1988. In 2020, as part of 
our continuing environmental compliance efforts, we 
commenced a detailed verification process of air emissions 
at our manufacturing facilities and are evaluating and 
implementing upgrades to decrease emissions further.2020 GOALReduce absolute  
GHG  emissions by 10%
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchieved
GHG EMISSIONS FROM BAXTER OPERATIONS *
* The regional breakdown of the data included in this graph reflects the structure 
of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) organization and 
the categorization of data in the EHS&S global information management system 
through 2020. Some data for 2018 and 2019 are restated from data reported in the 
Baxter 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report to improve accuracy and to reflect 
updated GHG emission factors.Thousand Metric
Tons CO2eMetric Tons CO2e per Million Dollars of Sales
 2018 2019 2020
North America 247       250 253
Latin America 68       68 69
EMEA 120       122 128
Asia Pacific 161       161 161
Metric tons CO2e per 54 53 52
Million Dollars of Sales0100200300400500600700
010203040506070
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY AND  
VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG  
EMISSIONS TABLE FOR MORE DETAIL.VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY AND  
VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG  
EMISSIONS TABLE FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT38Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT
Baxter works to increase the diversity of our suppliers 
and support sustainable practices across our supply 
chain. In addition to traditional considerations, 
such as quality and price, we integrate social and 
environmental criteria into our requests for proposal 
and supplier contract templates. 
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Supplier diversity is a high priority for our company. 
Baxter develops mutually beneficial relationships with 
small and diverse suppliers as we strive to increase 
the diversity of our supplier base. During 2020, our Responsible Procurement  
and Logistics
Implement world-class sustainability practices with key partners
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
Baxter is committed to driving sustainable practices in our global supply chain, which extends 
from the producers of the raw materials we use in manufacturing to our distribution network 
for delivering products to patients and healthcare providers. 
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
purchases with diverse 
suppliers totaled 5.6% 
of relevant spending.1 
Although this was an 
increase from 5.2% 
in 2019, we did not 
achieve our goal of 
6% during 2020. This 
was largely due to the 
adoption of a more 
rigorous approach 
to how we classify data, which only counts spend with 
diversity certification confirmed by our third-party 
data provider. In addition, COVID-19 travel restrictions 
impacted our ability to engage with diverse suppliers. 
2020 GOALIncrease spending 
with diverse 
suppliers to 6% of 
relevant spending
Not achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSin spending with minority-
owned businesses* and
in spending with women-
owned businesses*$64.3 million
$84.4 millionof UPS shipping outside 
the United States offset 
using carbon credits, 
more than 1,300 metric 
tons CO2e of greenhouse 
gas emissions100%
of participating suppliers 
earned advanced or 
moderate scores on our 
Supplier Corporate 
Responsibility Survey77%
*Spending with suppliers that certify for multiple categories is included in the total for each category. United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year 
basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT39Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
A third-party review estimates that our spending with 
diverse suppliers during this same timeframe supported 
more than 1,000 jobs at those suppliers and over  
$57 million in associated employee income. Including 
estimated indirect and induced economic impacts, our 
spending supported a total of more than 2,000 jobs and 
$109 million in associated employee income.2
As part of Baxter’s ACT: Activating Change Today initiative, 
we are continuing to emphasize a strategic approach 
to increasing spend and deepening relationships with 
diverse suppliers. Consequently, in 2020, we participated 
in the National Minority Supplier Development Council 
(NMSDC) matchmaker event to connect Baxter team 
members with minority-owned businesses. We also 
committed $150,000 to support minority-owned 
businesses that were impacted by COVID-19 and civil 
unrest. Learn more about our ACT initiative and related 
activities across our business on our website  and in the 
Introduction of this report. We maintain corporate memberships with many 
organizations that promote and certify diverse 
suppliers and have served on the NMSDC Board. 
During 2020, in addition to taking part in the 
NMSDC matchmaking event, we participated in 
meetings led by NMSDC with the National Gay and 
Lesbian Chamber of Commerce and Disability:IN, 
enabling us to build stronger relationships with 
these organizations and increase matchmaking 
opportunities. Fostering relationships with a variety 
of organizations helps us identify diverse suppliers 
for inclusion in our supply chain, increase our 
visibility within the diverse supplier community and 
advance progress in this area more broadly.
In 2020, we realigned our procurement organization 
to improve collaboration with our company’s regions 
and global business units. This resulted in our ability 
to initiate matchmaking with diverse suppliers of 
specific categories toward the end of the year. This 
new approach will help us identify opportunities 
for and potentially increase our spend with diverse 
suppliers moving forward. 
We also updated our supplier registration portal in 
2020 to enable registration for diverse suppliers who 
are looking for opportunites to work with Baxter. 
Using the portal, diverse suppliers can upload their 
certificates and answer questions that will make 
them more visible to Baxter teams looking for new 
suppliers through our internal search tool. The 
portal should also improve communications with 
our suppliers and help us gather more information 
related to spending with our Tier II suppliers so we 
can track and measure it more accurately. 
Learn more  about supplier diversity at Baxter.SPENDING WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS, 2020*
$143.8
million
to small 
businesses$64.3
million
to minority-owned 
businesses
$6.3
million
to veteran-owned 
businesses
$0.9
million
to HUBZone-certified 
businesses$2.5
million
to service-disabled-
veteran-owned businesses$84.4
million
to women-owned 
businesses
$27.5
million
to small 
disadvantaged
businesses$
* Spending with suppliers that certify for multiple categories is included in the 
total for each category. United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis 
(October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN OUR  
SUPPLY CHAIN
Baxter's Global Human Rights Policy  outlines our 
commitment to respect human rights across the value 
chain and our expectation that suppliers do the same, 
either in accordance with our policy or under their own 
similar policies. To enable this, we make appropriate 
training available to targeted suppliers and conduct 
supplier assessments. In addition, any suppliers who 
register with Baxter through our supplier registration 
portal must read our Global Human Rights Policy and 
indicate whether they agree with the commitments therein .  
Baxter adheres to supply chain transparency requirements  
where applicable, through publicly available statements. 
In addition to our Global Human Rights Policy, Baxter’s 
UK Modern Slavery Statement  declares our commitments  
and approach to ensuring that our local operations and  
global supply chain are free from modern slavery 
practices, including child labor, forced and bonded labor, 
and human trafficking. We also have a position statement 
related to the California Transparency in Supply Chains 
Act of 2010 . 
In addition, for specific urology products sold in the UK,  
we have implemented a Labor Standards Assurance 
System (LSAS). It includes a UK LSAS Policy , a 
relevant labor standards supply chain risk assessment, 
management commitment, employee awareness 
training and key performance indicators. This 
management system provides us with a clear framework 
through which to approach human rights and labor 
standards and improves our ability to manage supply 
chain risks in these areas. Many elements of this 
management system approach also help us meet the  
requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act. We have a 
cross-functional team that maintains our LSAS program 
and integrates it with our supplier sustainability work.  VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT40Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
During 2020, in alignment with our LSAS commitments , 
we underwent a third-party audit of our management 
systems by Bureau Veritas. The results of that audit 
demonstrated ongoing improvement in several audit 
categories.  
MANAGING PROCUREMENT RISKS
Baxter takes a risk-based approach to managing 
corporate responsibility issues in our supply chain.  Our 
Supplier Quality Standard  and Ethics and Compliance 
Standards for Baxter Suppliers  outline expectations and 
requirements for all our suppliers.
To improve our corporate responsibility performance, 
we integrate supplier sustainability into our overall 
supplier management processes and conduct periodic  
assessments of key suppliers to evaluate cost, delivery, 
quality and risk. As part of this process we also examine 
the financial risk of suppliers to ensure we don’t have 
SUPPLY CHAIN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMany disruptions in supply. We work with suppliers who 
receive low scores in the areas of quality and delivery 
to develop continuous improvement plans. Scores from 
our annual Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey 
feed directly into this assessment. 
Using a trusted third-party service, we receive 
notifications if disruptions occur in areas of the world 
where our suppliers are located. Such disruptions could 
include natural disasters, fires, major weather events 
or geopolitical activity. Using this information, we’re 
able to respond quickly to ensure supply continuity.
SUPPLIER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SURVEY
Baxter conducts an annual survey to better 
understand the corporate responsibility programs and 
performance of our suppliers and drive continuous 
improvement. In 2020, we continued partnering with 
EcoVadis to use its sustainability ratings platform to survey our supplier base and validate responses in the 
areas of environment, labor and human rights, ethics, 
and sustainable procurement. The results included 
data from 211 Baxter suppliers, including 136 that 
already had data for 2020 in the EcoVadis platform and 
75 that were invited to participate for the first time. Of 
those 211 suppliers, 45% were from Europe, Middle 
East and Africa (EMEA); 40% from the Americas; and 
15% from Asia Pacific (APAC). Suppliers have access 
to detailed scorecards regarding their corporate 
responsibility management practices on the EcoVadis 
platform, including information about strengths 
and benchmark comparisons, as well as actionable 
improvement areas. We use these scorecards to drive 
ongoing improvement and anticipate an increase 
in participation as we expand our efforts to engage 
suppliers in the coming years. In 2020, we also began 
including the scores from this survey in our business 
reviews with strategic suppliers for ongoing discussion 
and monitoring.
SUMMARY OF SUPPLIER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SURVEY SCORES, 2018 –2020* 
 
 
   Environment 40% 36% 36% 45% 47% 43% 12% 17% 20% 2% 1% 2%
   Labor and Human Rights  23% 23% 22% 55% 54% 54% 21% 23% 23% 1% 1% 1%
   Ethics 17% 15% 19% 55% 58% 51% 26% 27% 27% 1% 1% 3%
   Sustainable Procurement  18% 22% 17% 40% 43% 39% 40% 33% 36% 2% 3% 8%
   Overall 25% 27% 27% 60% 55% 50% 14% 18% 23% 1% 1% 1%
   Cross-Industry Average  3% 3% 4% 38% 39% 41% 55% 54% 51% 3% 4% 4%2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020Advanced Moderate Partial InsufficientPercent of Participating Suppliers
* The performance categories presented in this table align with the EcoVadis methodology. “Advanced” indicates structured and proactive corporate responsibility (CR) approach; 
policies and tangible actions on major topics with significant CR reporting. “Moderate” indicates structured and proactive CR approach; policies and tangible actions on major 
topics with basic CR reporting. “Partial” indicates no structured CR approach; few tangible actions on selected topics; certifications related to sites and/or products are only 
partial. “Insufficient” indicates no engagements or tangible actions regarding CR. Evidence in certain cases of misconduct (e.g. pollution, corruption). Data for 2020 reflect a 
combination of Baxter suppliers that already had 2020 data in the EcoVadis platform, as of March 2, 2021, and those surveyed for the first time. Data from prior years are based 
only on yearly surveys. In some cases, segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding.
• Supplier Quality Standards
• Ethics and Compliance Standards 
 for Baxter Suppliers
• Global Human Rights Policy
• UK Labor Standards Assurance System
• Identify top suppliers by annual spend
• Assess comparative risk based on   
 geographic location, commodity type  
 and other factors
• Conduct Supplier Corporate    
 Responsibility Survey
• Conduct supplier audits 
• Develop and confirm progress on   
 corrective action plansCommunicate 
clear policies and 
standards
Identify and 
prioritize suppliers 
based on risk 
Use established 
processes and metrics 
to monitor progress
Regularly disclose 
performance and 
highlight progress• Supplier Corporate Responsibility   
 Survey report card
• Annual Corporate Responsibility Report
• Investor surveys
• Ratings and rankingsEstablish Policies
Assess Risk
Monitor and Manage Performance
Report PerformanceBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT41Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
SUPPLIER AUDITS
In past years, the Baxter Supplier Sustainability 
team has worked with our Environmental, Health, 
Safety and Sustainability team to conduct supplier 
audits, aligned with the Pharmaceutical Supply  
Chain Initiative (PSCI)  protocol, which covers ethics; 
labor; environment, health and safety; and related 
management systems. During 2020, we did not 
conduct any of these audits as we continued to expand 
our capabilities in this area. We plan to reinstitute 
these audits in future years. 
During 2020, 453 audits of Baxter suppliers were 
conducted related to management systems for 
product quality. Learn more about our approach to 
patient safety and quality . We are evaluating how  
to incorporate corporate responsibility elements into 
the quality audit process to more fully integrate our 
sustainable procurement framework into our  
supply chain.
INDUSTRY COLLABORATION
Baxter collaborates with other companies and 
organizations within the healthcare industry to improve 
efficiency and advance responsible procurement. 
We are a member of PSCI and have served on the 
PSCI advisory panel. In addition, we have taken part in 
the PSCI Supplier Capability Building Committee and 
several subcommittees, including the Human Rights 
and Labor subcommittee. Through this work, we 
have helped to establish industrywide best practices, 
including those related to management systems, 
human rights/labor, and ethics and compliance in the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. 
To establish a secure supply chain, we participate in 
programs such as the Customs Trade Partnership 
Against Terrorism (CTPAT) program, which supports a 
secure and reliable supply of lifesaving medical products. This includes shipments of raw materials and finished 
products both to and from various Baxter locations, 
foreign suppliers, distributors and customers. As an 
importer and exporter, Baxter has been recognized 
as a Tier III Partner (the highest level possible) in the 
program since 2011. 
GREEN LOGISTICS 
Baxter transports more than 5 million metric tons of 
raw materials and finished goods each year throughout 
our global supply chain, primarily in partnership with 
third-party vendors and carriers. We have processes 
and initiatives to reduce the environmental impact of 
our distribution activities and decrease greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions related to product transport. 
To minimize emissions associated with our distribution 
network, we prioritize efficiency through initiatives 
such as our ocean export consolidation center in 
EMEA, use of high-capacity containers and by favoring 
transportation modes with fewer GHG emissions. We 
also pilot use of nontraditional fuel sources (such as 
electricity and biofuel) and transportation methods 
(such as bicycle couriers) to explore the viability of 
alternatives and evaluate whether we might be able 
to expand any to a larger scale. To better manage 
emissions across our distribution network, we have 
added requirements to our contracts with transport 
suppliers related to the measurement of GHG 
emissions, reduction targets and related initiatives. 
Our worldwide GHG emissions from product transport 
totaled 447,400 metric tons CO2e in 2020.3 This is 
equivalent to 89 kilograms CO2e per metric ton of 
products transported. During the year, our GHG emissions 
related to product transport by air increased by 99% 
compared with 2019. This was primarily due to prioritizing 
the quick delivery of critical, lifesaving products to 
hospitals in urgent need of renal supplies and other 
Baxter products as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.In addition, during 2020 we began using EcoTransIT 
methodology and software, in alignment with the 
Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) framework, 
for calculating our GHG emissions across all product 
transport modes. The emission factors we are 
now using are more comprehensive and specific, 
providing a more robust understanding of our product 
transport-related GHG emissions compared with our 
previous methodology. 
WORLDWIDE GHG EMISSIONS FROM PRODUCT TRANSPORT 
BY MODE, 2020
AirRoadOcean7% Rail3%
24%66%
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT42Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Baxter’s approach to improving efficiency and 
decreasing emissions from product transport includes: 
Environmentally 
responsible 
partnerships
Baxter is one of a 
select number of 
companies that 
participate in the 
U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency's 
SmartWay program 
as both a Carrier and 
Shipper Partner. In addition, we continued using carbon 
credits to offset our UPS shipping outside the United 
States. During 2020, we offset more than 1,300 metric 
tons CO2e of GHG emissions through this program. 
In 2020, we also joined two global initiatives: the 
GLEC Partnership, which provides a framework for 
reporting logistics-related GHG emissions, and Clean 
Cargo, which focuses on environmentally responsible 
ocean shipping. The Clean Cargo methodology is the 
industry standard for calculating emissions related to 
ocean container shipping and will enable us to make 
more informed purchasing decisions for our ocean 
freight. We are also using EcoTransIT software and 
methodology to capture and report our emissions 
data. These partnerships will help us better calculate 
our emissions and develop greater insight into the 
environmental impacts of our product transport. 
Technology innovation    We are continuing to pilot 
and implement transportation methods that decrease 
emissions, with a focus on deliveries in urban areas. 
For example, in the UK, Baxter has partnered with 
Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust 
to use bicycle couriers to deliver patient-specific 
chemotherapy, antibiotics and intravenous nutrition 
products from our compounding facility in Oxford 
to local hospitals. This approach eliminates carbon 
emissions associated with these deliveries and cuts the delivery time in half. In addition, we are piloting 
electric trucks for deliveries in Belgium, and in 2020, 
we laid the groundwork for a biofuel pilot program 
in the UK. We also improve efficiency and reduce 
emissions through regular fleet renewal and vehicle 
improvements. For instance, in the United States, the 
vehicles we rent and lease for home deliveries are 
regularly replaced to ensure we are taking advantage 
of the latest features to increase fuel efficiency, such 
as reduced height, aerodynamic noses, speed limiters 
and idle shutdown. As a result, we saw a 3.5% decrease 
in fuel consumption per mile for these U.S. delivery 
trucks in 2020 compared with 2019.  
Modal shift     Combining multiple transportation modes 
for a single shipment—for example, converting road to 
rail for parts of a route—can decrease costs and overall 
GHG emissions. In 2020, we continued converting road 
freight to rail worldwide. To replace air freight with 
ocean and rail wherever possible, all large, unplanned 
air shipments must receive senior manager approval. However, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we 
did increase air shipments in 2020 to accelerate the 
delivery of urgent, critical products. In some cases, we 
were able to use ocean shipments, despite the longer 
lead time, by initiating the customs clearance and 
import process while the goods were in transit. 
Optimizing the distribution network    The use 
of innovative technologies, such as transport 
management systems and route optimization tools, 
saves time and money while improving environmental 
performance. We have an ocean export consolidation 
center in Antwerp, Belgium, for the majority of 
our EMEA export shipments. The center combines 
shipments from different warehouse locations in 
Europe and optimizes loads so that containers are less 
likely to be shipped partially full. This reduces the total 
number of containers shipped and saves money while 
increasing supply frequency. We increased the scope 
of this center in 2020 and started using higher capacity 
containers for some shipments, which increases 
the number of pallets per container by 30%. These 
higher capacity containers enabled us to avoid the 
use of 137 containers that would have otherwise been 
shipped during 2020. We are evaluating the possibility 
of expanding this consolidation center concept to our 
other regions, including centers in the Americas and 
Asia Pacific. 
Conservation of resources    We conserve natural 
resources at our distribution facilities, when possible. 
In 2020, for example, our Marion (North Cove), North 
Carolina, facility used recycled wood pallets for 
outbound shipments, which reduces the use of new 
wooden pallets by 101,500 annually, equivalent to 
approximately 12,700 trees.4  Beginning in December 
2020, we also use recycled pallets at our ocean export 
consolidation center in Antwerp, Belgium, and plan to 
expand this initiative to more sites in the United States 
in coming years. 
2020 GOALExpand green 
transport 
partnerships to all 
business regions 
globally
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchievedBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT43
Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
PRODUCT DONATIONS  
Making sure that healthcare providers and patients around the world have access to Baxter’s lifesaving 
innovations is essential. Strategically investing in product donations is one way Baxter improves access to care 
for vulnerable populations with unmet healthcare needs. 
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE: MANUFACTURE-TO-DONATE PROGRAM
We manufacture products twice a year specifically for donation to our three 
trusted humanitarian partners: Americares , Direct Relief  and Partners In Health . 
This manufacture-to-donate strategy, an industry best practice, means our 
partners can rely on having critically needed, long-dated products year-round—  
not just during emergency situations. In 2020, we donated products valued at 
$24 million, enhancing access to care for patients around the world.  
See Summary of 2020 Giving . Innovation That Expands      
Access to Care
Improve access to healthcare for the underserved
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
Guided by our mission and inspired by the millions of patients and caregivers who rely 
on our products, we are dedicated to nurturing, developing and delivering innovative 
healthcare solutions. Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation strategically invest in 
new partnerships with world-renowned organizations, deploying our people, products and 
grants globally to increase access to care. Additionally, our Government Affairs and Public 
Policy team works with lawmakers, governments, patient organizations and policy makers 
as well as entities focused on addressing healthcare disparities in minority populations.
2020 GOALPre-position donated 
products with donor 
partners to enable 
optimal distribution 
and first-on-scene 
response
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchieved
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43in products 
donated$24 million
patients in 9 countries served 
by outpatient dialysis clinics and 
centers of excellence through 
Baxter Renal Care ServicesLaunched 
6
Signature Partnerships 
that expand access 
to care since 201625 ,000 +BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT44
Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Our manufacture-to-donate product donation 
strategy aligns with the guidance established by the 
World Health Organization guidelines for medicine 
donations and the Partnership for Quality Medical 
Donations (PQMD) guidelines . Baxter serves on the 
board of PQMD to support global best practices in 
product donations. 
Through our longstanding partnership with 
Americares, we donate products to support U.S. 
medical outreach teams that travel overseas to 
provide charitable care to underserved populations. 
While fewer medical mission trips occurred in 2020 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Baxter products 
were distributed in 28 countries as part of 54 medical 
mission trips during the year. Learn more  about 
Baxter’s longstanding partnership with Americares. U.S. PATIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Through our U.S. Patient Assistance Program, we make 
chemotherapy drugs available to cancer patients who 
have financial barriers to access and who lack insurance 
or prescription drug coverage. We have offered 
Cyclophosphamide since the program’s inception in 
2009, and in 2019, we expanded it to include Doxorubicin 
(also known as Doxil). 
DISASTER RELIEF
With several natural disasters and the onset of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, 2020 was a unique and challenging 
year. Baxter has a longstanding history of providing 
disaster relief through investments in preparedness, 
immediate response and recovery efforts that expand access  to care in collaboration with our humanitarian 
partners. In 2020, our global disaster relief partners 
included the American Red Cross, Americares, the 
Australian Red Cross, Direct Relief and International 
Medical Corps. Additionally, we provided immediate 
support to more than one dozen relief organizations 
working on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic 
to address the needs of patients, health workers and 
communities around the world. Examples of our disaster 
relief efforts for the year include: 
• To support a global response to COVID-19, the Baxter 
International Foundation provided $2.5 million in 
grants to charitable organizations. 
• In response to bushfires in Australia, the Baxter 
International Foundation committed $100,000 to the 
Australian Red Cross. In addition, our local Baxter 
colleagues coordinated fundraising campaigns and 
worked with emergency services personnel and 
customers to reroute and reschedule deliveries and 
assist patients who were displaced, evacuated or in 
high-risk areas. 
• Following a series of earthquakes and aftershocks 
in Puerto Rico, Baxter implemented our emergency 
preparedness process to maintain a consistent 
product supply. In 2020, the Baxter International 
Foundation provided $175,000 through grant 
commitments and disaster relief financial support 
to nonprofit partners in Puerto Rico. We also 
authorized partners to deploy products that we had 
pre-positioned in the area for use in times of crisis.  
Additionally, our Baxter Employee Disaster Relief Fund 
enables employees to donate funds to help co-workers 
impacted by disasters globally. The Baxter International 
Foundation provided seed funding and covers all costs 
related to management of the fund, which allows 100%  
of employee donations to reach colleagues-in-need. 
Photo credit:  Ana María Ariza/AmericaresBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT45
Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
THE BAXTER INTERNATIONAL 
FOUNDATION
The Baxter International Foundation , the philanthropic 
arm of Baxter International Inc. partners with 
organizations around the world to increase access 
to healthcare for the underserved; bolster science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) education to 
develop the next generation of healthcare innovators; 
and promote community resilience where our employees 
live and work. In 2020, the Foundation provided more 
than $8 million in cash contributions for programs in 
40 countries. The grants funded programs focused on 
COVID-19 relief efforts, advancing safe surgery, diabetes 
prevention, nutrition, and STEM education, as well as 
diversity and inclusion initiatives.SIGNATURE 
PARTNERSHIPS
Over the last five years 
the Baxter International 
Foundation has 
transformed its giving 
to focus on long-term 
strategic investments. 
From 2016 through 2020, 
we have helped support  
six Signature Partnerships 
benefiting hundreds of 
thousands of people and 
families globally.
In 2016, we established our first Signature Partnership 
grant to support Driving Your Health (Manejando Tu 
Salud)—a free community mobile medical program 
that expanded access to healthcare in underserved 
communities throughout greater Mexico City. Informed 
by the success of this program, the Baxter International 
Foundation launched a new strategy that emphasizes 
larger-scale, multiyear partnerships to enhance quality 
healthcare in underserved communities globally. Through 
these investments, we focus on increasing access to care 
in the following areas: diabetes prevention, clean water 
and nutrition. We accelerate progress in these areas 
through digital and telehealth innovations. 
American Diabetes Association    As part of Baxter’s 
ACT: Activating Change Today initiative , the Baxter 
International Foundation established a partnership 
with the American Diabetes Association (ADA) in 2020 
to address health disparities for people with diabetes 
in Chicago’s underserved Black communities. Made 
possible with a three-year, $2 million grant from the 
Foundation, the community-based program will help 
remove barriers to diabetes care and promote diabetes 
prevention for a population that is disproportionally 
affected by the disease. The Foundation is also matching 
employee donations to the ADA at a 2:1 ratio throughout 
the partnership. Learn more . 
Across Italy, Save the Children employees and local partners distribute basic 
necessities, such as food and hygiene products, directly to low-income children 
and families facing increased health, education and safety risks amid COVID-19. 
Above, Save the Children colleagues prepare for distribution in the city of Sassari in 
Sardinia. Photo credit: Marco Sanna for Save the ChildrenUNICEF USA    The Baxter International Foundation 
established a three-year, $1.5 million Signature 
Partnership with UNICEF USA in 2020 to support access 
to clean water and sanitation for families in La Guajira, 
Colombia. The initiative intends to bolster the national 
government’s technical expertise and capacity to provide 
water and hygiene infrastructure to rural areas across 
the country. Learn more on our UNICEF USA partner 
webpage . For more about Baxter’s work to support 
access to clean water and enhance sanitation in water-
stressed areas where we have facilities, see Serving Our 
Communities . 
Save the Children    In 2020, we made a $1 million grant 
to support Save the Children’s global efforts to provide 
relief to children and families during the COVID-19  
pandemic. Beyond medical supplies, the nonprofit 
also provides water, sanitation and hygiene resources, 
nutritional support, education and more. Learn more . 2020 GOALEstablish the Baxter 
International 
Foundation  
Partnership Grant 
program in 2016 to  
drive increased access   
to healthcare  
for an incremental  
10,000 patients 
annually. 
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchieved
THE BAXTER INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION:  
THREE STRATEGIC PILLARS
Increase Access 
to Healthcare
Foster 
Tomorrow’s
Innovation 
in STEMPromote 
Community
ResilienceOur grant strategy focuses on accelerating change and 
innovation and funding solutions across three key pillars.   
Our work across these pillars is discussed in detail throughout 
this section and the Serving Our Communities section.   BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT46
Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Direct Relief    In partnership with Direct Relief, we 
established the Transformative Innovation Awards for 
Community Health: Incorporating Nutrition to Improve 
Diabetes Health Outcomes. This three-year $750,000 
initiative, launched in 2019, aims to advance innovation 
in diabetes patient care at health centers and free 
and charitable clinics. Through the end of 2020, Direct 
Relief has provided more than $248,000 in awards to 
six organizations, reaching nearly 3,000 people directly 
and 7,500 indirectly. In 2020, the awards focused on 
clinics in rural communities in Arkansas and Missouri, 
providing health, nutrition, physical activity education 
and evidence-based diabetes self-management 
classes to help people take better control of their 
diabetes. Classes are made available virtually to 
address safety concerns from COVID-19. Providers 
can also access specialist support virtually through 
telehealth services provided by The MAVEN Project. 
Learn more .
Operation Smile    In 2019, Baxter established a three-
year $2.2 million partnership with Operation Smile 
to advance safe surgery in underserved communities 
in India. The partnership supports care centers in 
Durgapur, Mumbai, Srinagar and Bangalore, operated 
in collaboration with Inga Health Foundation. The 
centers treat patients of all ages with cleft conditions 
and expand opportunities for education and training 
of local healthcare workers. In response to COVID-19 , 
staff and volunteers at the centers distributed food 
and hygiene supplies to thousands of families and 
migrant workers surrounding the Durgapur and 
Mumbai centers. The teams also continued delivering 
exceptional virtual patient care and forged new 
solutions to resume in-person patient care at the 
centers. As a result of this partnership, surgery has 
resumed with heightened safety protocols; in 2020, 
Operation Smile directly reached 7,000 individuals, 
including serving more than 4,000 patients with 
surgical and multidisciplinary care. Learn more . BAXTER INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION  
PRIZE PROGRAMS
To support ongoing advancements that benefit patients 
and expand access to care, Baxter sponsors three prize 
programs that recognize organizations and individuals 
who have made outstanding contributions and exhibited 
leadership in healthcare research and health service 
delivery. The William B. Graham Prize  is the highest 
distinction that researchers in the health services field 
can achieve, recognizing global contributions to improving 
public health through research. The Foster G. McGaw Prize  
recognizes U.S. healthcare organizations that deliver 
innovative programs to improve community health and 
well-being. (Due to COVID-19, this prize was suspended 
for 2020 as hospitals and health systems responded to the 
pandemic.) The Episteme Award  is bestowed biennially 
to a nurse who has contributed significantly to discovery, 
practice and knowledge development in the field of nursing. 
COLLABORATING TO IMPROVE HEALTHCARE
Through partnerships, innovative solutions and 
stakeholder engagement, Baxter works to tackle global 
health challenges and expand the availability of our 
treatments, strengthen health systems and support public 
health worldwide. Our work includes educating patients, 
training physicians and healthcare professionals, and 
sharing best practices in manufacturing and treatment. 
Additionally, we collaborate with governments, companies 
and nonprofit organizations to promote policies and 
standards that enhance patient access to therapy and 
products. Through these efforts we are working to provide 
transformative solutions to improve healthcare. 
SHARING BEST PRACTICES FOR RENAL CARE
Chronic kidney disease affects 10% of the global 
population.1  We estimate as many as four million people 
suffer from renal failure globally, which is the last stage 
of the disease progression and requires dialysis or a kidney transplant to stay alive. It’s further estimated 
that millions more go undiagnosed and untreated 
globally. At Baxter, we seek to expand access to care 
and innovate across renal care therapies to reduce 
complications, improve outcomes and make dialysis 
care more efficient and effective. 
During 2020, COVID-19 created a significant need to 
focus on continuity of care for patients with kidney 
failure that require lifesaving, routine therapy, with 
special focus on helping them gain access to home 
dialysis. The pandemic highlighted the need for 
patients with kidney failure, who also have immune 
dysfunction, to be able to socially distance themselves 
to avoid the viral infection. Baxter assembled a global 
task force to identify and advocate for solutions to 
barriers resulting from the pandemic and to support 
local teams as they worked to quickly address unique 
country-by-country needs. 
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT47
Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Our activities were broad in reach. Following are a few 
key examples:  
• New peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients must have 
a catheter inserted into their abdominal area to 
facilitate home treatment. This became challenging 
during the pandemic, as some facilities deemed this 
to be an elective procedure. To support access to 
this essential procedure that enables home dialysis, 
Baxter worked with healthcare professionals, medical 
societies and ministries of health globally to advocate 
for patients’ access to the procedure. For example, we 
worked with the ministries of health in Australia and 
India to recognize catheter insertion as a non-elective 
procedure, and even an emergency procedure as 
needed, removing a roadblock for patients in need of 
PD care. Baxter also successfully advocated for this in 
the United States, among other countries.
• In response to the pandemic many healthcare 
professionals rapidly adjusted practices in their 
clinics and began supporting an increased number 
of home patients. As home dialysis rates continue 
to rise, so does the demand for nurses who have 
the expertise to successfully manage a PD program. 
In response, we created programs such as  the PD 
Excellence Academy, a virtual training platform and 
educational resource center to help nurses develop 
PD skills for optimal patient care. Baxter designed the PD Excellence Academy training resources 
to provide standardized, evidence-based and 
actionable curriculum in a convenient and easily 
accessible virtual format.  
• Around the world, local teams actively engaged 
with policy makers to support healthcare 
professionals’ ability to adopt and implement digital 
health tools to remotely manage patient care. For 
example, the Baxter team in South Korea worked 
with the ministry of health to gain temporary 
approval to provide reimbursement for dialysis 
providers that use Baxter’s Sharesource remote 
patient management platform, which enables 
healthcare providers to remotely monitor their 
home patients’ treatments. About half the hospitals 
in South Korea that treat PD patients (54 hospitals 
in total) were included in the first phase of this 
program during 2020.
• To further foster global support of patients’ access 
to home care during the pandemic, we hosted the 
first International Home Dialysis Roundtable. The 
two-day meeting was the first global gathering 
of all the major nephrology societies, patient 
organizations and key opinion leaders on the topic 
of how to help dialysis patients during this time. 
The initial output from this meeting resulted in a 
white paper roadmap and consensus paper. • We initiated a global Safer at Home awareness campaign 
to help educate patients and key stakeholders  about 
home care as an important therapy 
option during this time and to 
discourage slow starts on therapy  
or patients opting out of therapy for  
fear of contracting the virus.
During 2020, we also 
continued to provide patient 
care through our Baxter 
Renal Care Services. These 
facilities, located in nine 
countries, function as 
dialysis clinics and centers 
of excellence to support 
patients with chronic kidney 
disease management, PD  
or hemodialysis therapies. 
This includes the three clinics we opened in recent years in 
emerging markets, one in Indonesia and two in China.  
These clinics operate under two distinct business models. 
During 2020, in partnership with the Indonesian Ministry of 
Health and Lampung Province, Baxter Renal Care Services, 
with the assistance of Menggala District Hospital, hosted 
three events to provide education and free testing an d 
diagnostics for patients with chronic kidney disease. We  
are currently caring for more than 25,000 patients in our 
Baxter Renal Care Services clinics globally. 
“          Freedom is the big thing about being on PD. You don't have 
to drive for miles, three times a week for in-center hemodialysis  
treatments. My days are free, so I can do whatever I want;  
I only do therapy while sleeping. If I keep feeling the way I do 
now,  I plan to do a lot of fishing this summer at the lake.”
TOM from Canada
          The transition 
from hemodialysis to 
PD was good for me. 
It is milder and I feel 
better, which puts me in 
a better position to get 
tested for a transplant.”
ANIA from Poland
“
2020 GOALLaunch two new 
emerging market 
business models 
in Baxter’s renal 
business
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchievedBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT48
Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Additionally, we continue our work to advocate broadly 
for renal patients who need access to lifesaving 
therapies but encounter barriers due to cost or other 
challenges. For example, Baxter is working to advance 
the Prime Minister’s National Dialysis Program 
(PMNDP), which is driven by the National Health 
Mission of India’s Ministry of Health and Family Welfare . 
This policy, announced in 2016, encourages increased 
access to PD care for those living below the poverty line. 
In late 2019, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare 
established guidelines for inclusion of PD in the PMNDP 
and made funding available that will increase access to 
care for this economically vulnerable group, which 
includes approximately 100 million families. By the  
end of 2020, 21 states and union territories in India 
had shown interest in implementing the plan and  
have received approval for funding from the National 
Health Mission. 
PUBLIC POLICY
To deliver on Baxter’s mission of saving and sustaining 
lives, we advocate for issues related to reimbursement, 
tax, trade and a variety of regulatory concerns. Baxter's 
Government Affairs and Public Policy team works with 
lawmakers, governments and policy makers worldwide 
to support patient access to Baxter’s lifesaving therapies , 
improve the regulatory environment and reimbursement 
structure for our therapies, and increase understanding 
of the benefits of those therapies. We also collaborate 
with clinicians, nongovernmental organizations and 
patient groups to improve access to healthcare for 
millions of people worldwide. 
See Baxter’s 2020 Political Contributions Report  for 
details about our political contributions as well as our 
membership in certain trade and industry groups. 
During 2020, our key public policy focus areas included: 
COVID-19 pandemic response     Beginning in March 
2020, Baxter engaged directly with governments 
throughout the world to provide pharmaceuticals  and 
medical devices needed in the response to COVID-19.  Baxter worked with multiple agencies and ministries  
in relevant countries to ensure that our lifesaving and  
life-sustaining products remained available for 
healthcare providers treating all patients, both with  
and without COVID-19.  
For example, during the early days of the pandemic,  
Baxter worked directly with multiple governments to 
ensure our employees could continue to work in our 
manufacturing facilities.  In the United States that 
meant ensuring our employees were deemed essential 
and could travel to multiple manufacturing facilities 
within the United States to ensure manufacturing 
continued throughout the pandemic. In Malaysia and 
Singapore, Baxter worked with both governments to 
ensure Malaysian employees could continue to reside 
in Singapore to ensure our Singapore manufacturing 
facility could continue manufacturing. Furthermore, 
Baxter found accommodations for our Malaysian 
employees in Singapore to ensure they could safely 
contribute to the pandemic response. As a result, 
Baxter was able to continue manufacturing critical 
pharmaceuticals and medical devices and products 
without disruption in the fight against the global pandemic.
Baxter also worked with multiple governments around 
the globe to communicate which Baxter products were 
available for government stakeholders and hospitals 
that were mobilizing to treat COVID-19 patients. 
Additionally, we advocated for certain governments 
around the world to move dialysis patients home, 
where appropriate, in order to better protect them from 
COVID-19. Working with multiple governmental health 
agencies and ministries, Baxter obtained emergency use 
authorizations for a multitude of products around the 
world. Furthermore, we used our global manufacturing 
footprint to increase production, in some cases, creating 
our own airbridges and seabridges to expedite delivery 
of supplies needed to treat COVID-19 patients. 
Since 2018 and throughout this pandemic, Baxter has 
advocated to key governments for increased resources 
to bolster public health pandemic preparedness, and will 
continue this advocacy going forward.  Advancing American Kidney Health Initiative      
In 2020, the U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services finalized an initiative aimed at increasing 
home dialysis and transplantation in the United States 
called the Advancing American Kidney Health Initiative 
(AAKHI). The centerpiece of AAKHI is the End-Stage 
Renal Disease Treatment Choices Model, a mandatory 
payment model that provides financial incentives to 
dialysis clinics for achieving higher rates of home 
dialysis and transplantation. Currently, nearly 90% of 
U.S. renal patients2 receive dialysis in a center, even 
though a home dialysis therapy option, such as PD, 
offers the convenience of therapy at home, provides 
equal or better outcomes for many patients and is a less 
costly alternative. Baxter is committed to supporting 
AAKHI by increasing PD supply for home dialysis in the 
United States. 
Promoting innovation in products for chronic kidney care   
We continued to support U.S. legislation that provides 
incentives to develop new, innovative devices for patients 
with kidney disease.
Supporting diverse populations    Baxter representatives 
attended the National Minority Quality Forum annual 
conference (held virtually in 2020) to learn more about 
health disparities affecting diverse populations and 
engaged key leaders in our efforts to serve patients 
with kidney failure and COVID-19, both of which 
disproportionally impact minority populations. A Baxter 
representative participated on a panel discussing the 
need to ensure equitable access to new innovations in 
dialysis therapy. 
Home delivery of renal products    In the United States, 
each state has its own laws and regulations that govern 
the dispensing of pharmaceuticals. We work across the 
states to help shape state policies that better align with 
our Renal HomeCare Services distribution and delivery 
model which provides a more efficient and cost effective 
delivery of home-based renal devices and supplies. BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT49Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 49Serving Our Communities
 Support communities worldwide in enduring ways   
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
in cash and  
products contributed 
to communities 
worldwide*$38 million+
contributed by the 
Baxter International 
Foundation to support 
COVID-19 response  $2.5 million
countries reached 
through 
philanthropic 
giving*100+
*By Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation.
The work Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation do to make a meaningful 
difference  around the world is a key component of our corporate responsibility commitment. 
While 2020 was uniquely challenging, our dedication to social investments globally never 
wavered. We supported COVID-19 response efforts by providing financial support to groups 
on the front lines of the pandemic—addressing the needs of patients, health workers and 
communities. Throughout the year, we also continued and, in some cases, expanded our 
programs to increase access to healthcare for the underserved ; bolster science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) education to develop the next generation of healthcare 
innovators; and promote community resilience where our employees live, work and give. 
2020 GOALComplete two 
projects that support 
access to clean 
water or enhance 
sanitation in water-
stressed areas
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchievedSUPPORTING ACCESS TO CLEAN WATER AND  
COMMUNITY RESILIENCE
Access to clean water is crucial for good health and well-being, proper 
sanitation and hygiene, and disease prevention. Unfortunately, this vital natural 
resource is limited in many areas of the world, disproportionately affecting 
communities with already constrained health infrastructure. To improve 
the health of people in underserved communities, Baxter and the Baxter 
International Foundation invest in projects that support access to clean water 
and enhance sanitation in water-stressed areas where we have facilities. BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT50Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
During 2020, we continued our work with Fundación 
Solar, a nonprofit in Guatemala, to reduce natural 
resource use, provide access to clean drinking water, 
improve community health and empower women in 
Aguacatán, Huehuetenango. Throughout the year, 
Fundación Solar provided 257 families in the Aguacatán 
community with water filters and wood-burning stoves 
that are safer and more energy-efficient than the 
traditional method of open-fire cooking. A Universidad 
del Valle de Guatemala study estimates that use of 
these wood-burning stoves reduces CO2 emissions by 
44% compared with open-fire cooking. We have now 
supported 507 families since distribution of these 
stoves and water filters began, avoiding approximately 
1,140 metric tons of CO2 emissions since the project's 
initiation in 2018. In addition, the solar-powered 
rainwater capture system established by Fundación 
Solar at the Oficial Rural Mixta school in Llano del 
Coyote collected and treated approximately 380 cubic 
meters of water during the year, which was then 
used throughout the facility for handwashing and 
cleaning. As part of this initiative, 7,500 trees1 have 
been planted to promote sustainable reforestation.  
Other partners engaged in this initiative include the Guatemalan Ministry of the Environment, Universidad 
del Valle de Guatemala and the United Nations.
We also continued our work on Project Srujal, a 
program that will provide clean water to 11 villages 
near Baxter’s manufacturing site in Ahmedabad, 
India—home to 1,500 of our employees. This 
multimillion-dollar initiative aims to benefit 
25,000 community members by the end of 2021 
through establishing water-related infrastructure, 
strengthening the villages’ ability to sustainably 
manage water resources, educating local 
communities about water safety and security, 
and building capacity to manage resources. While 
we experienced some project delays in 2020 due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic, as of the end of the 
year, Project Srujal had completed multiple water 
infrastructure projects, including construction of 
water tanks, bore wells, water meters, pipeline 
networks, rooftop rainwater harvesting structures 
and a cattle trough.
Additionally, in 2020, the Foundation established a  
Signature Partnership  with UNICEF USA  to increase access  
to clean water, sanitation and hygiene in Colombia.
FOSTERING TOMORROW’S 
INNOVATION THROUGH STEM
As a business, Baxter is committed to growth through  
innovation. Cultivating an innovative ecosystem 
is ingrained in who we are and what we do as a 
company—which is why we take a hands-on approach  
to help develop the next generation of scientists, 
engineers and healthcare professionals who will 
lead the way in defining tomorrow’s healthcare 
breakthroughs. To achieve this, we develop 
partnerships that support diverse STEM learning 
opportunities and encourage employees to serve as 
mentors in communities worldwide.
The Baxter Center for Science Education  is a 
partnership between the Baxter International 
Foundation, Northwestern University, Lindblom Math 
& Science Academy and Round Lake High School. 
During 2020, the Baxter Center quickly transitioned 
to a virtual environment in response to COVID-19 
to continue supporting educators and students and 
ensure STEM education could happen at home. The 
Baxter Center’s ongoing virtual offerings include live 
and on-demand workshops, meetups for teachers 
to collaborate on planning, opportunities to hear 
from and ask questions of scientists and educational 
researchers, and remote curriculum support. For 
example, through the Baxter Box@Home Program, 
teachers receive a demo lab kit and participate in 
virtual training and planning sessions with other 
educators to explore creative ways of bringing 
engaging science experiences to virtual, hybrid or 
in-person classrooms. Through this partnership we 
have reached 164,000 students since 2009.2   
Learn more about our 10+ year partnership . Photo left:  Fundación Solar provides efficient, wood-burning stoves to families in Guatemala.  Photo right: Eighty individual rooftop rainwater harvesting structures have been  
constructed through Project Srujal, providing households with direct access to clean drinking water.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT51Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
The Baxter International Foundation also supports 
the Illinois Science and Technology Institute’s (ISTI) 
annual STEM Challenge. Through this initiative, 
Baxter employees act as mentors for high school 
students participating in the six-month program to 
develop innovative solutions for real-world business 
challenges in STEM fields. During 2020, students were 
able to continue engaging with mentors through the 
ISTI virtual Mentor Match Engine. Additionally, ISTI 
conducted dedicated training for mentors focused on 
diversity, equity and inclusion as well as implicit bias 
and trauma-informed mentorship. 
For more than 20 years, Baxter and the Baxter 
International Foundation have supported FIRST (For 
Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology)  
Robotics’ STEM mission, to inspire young people to 
be science and technology leaders and innovators. 
Through a progression of team-based robotics 
challenges and backed by a global network of mentors, 
coaches, volunteers, alumni and sponsors, FIRST 
Robotics helps young people discover a passion for 
STEM and develop the skills they'll need to succeed in 
today's competitive workforce. As a founding member, 
we’ve provided more than $3 million in funding for local 
teams and regional competitions since 1998. In 2020, 
Baxter supported teams in Arkansas, Colorado, Illinois, 
Indiana, New York and Wisconsin.#BAXTERGIVESBACK: EMPLOYEE 
VOLUNTEERISM AND GIVING
Each year, our employees donate thousands of dollars 
and hours to help make a meaningful difference 
in communities globally. The Baxter International 
Foundation supports and amplifies the giving and 
volunteer efforts of our employees through our 
Matching Gift and Dollars for Doers Programs. 
The Baxter International Foundation Matching Gift 
Program matches employee donations,3 up to $5,000 
per year per employee. During 2020, we increased 
our support for two key areas by offering a 2:1 
match for employee gifts to select organizations 
providing COVID-19 relief efforts around the world and  
advancing racial justice in the United States. In 2020, 
the Foundation provided nearly $780,000 to match 
employee giving. 
Employees are also eligible for the Foundation’s 
Dollars for Doers Program, translating their time 
into volunteer grants for eligible organizations. In 
2020, 142 Dollars for Doers grants provided more 
than $52,500 to community organizations. Despite 
the impact of COVID-19, by the end of the year, 
employees had volunteered 16,875 hours in 17 
countries worldwide.To further encourage local community engagement, 
the Baxter International Foundation provides each 
of our eight business resource groups with a grant 
to extend to a nonprofit that supports diversity and 
inclusion initiatives. Organizations selected in 2020 
focus on a range of priorities, including healthcare, 
girls in STEM, disability inclusion, women’s career 
empowerment and LGBTQ+ initiatives. 
Since 2009, we have encouraged our facilities to host 
activities for Baxter World Environment Week, an 
annual global event that corresponds to the United 
Nations World Environment Day in June. These events 
include activities such as refuse cleanups, habitat 
restoration and educational visits to local nature 
preserves with employees and their families. In 2020, 
we did not sponsor any events due to COVID-19.  We 
look forward to celebrating Baxter World Environment 
Week again in the future.
“          I loved being able to ask questions that prompted our group to 
think about the project in a different way—how an engineer would.  
I could see the wheels turning in their minds as we encouraged them 
to see the challenge from a different perspective. I hope I helped 
them learn more about the engineering process, and how engineers  
approach problems or situations in a unique way.”
SARAH,  BAXTER MANAGER OF ENGINEERING AND STEM MENTOR
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT52Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
SUMMARY OF 2020 GIVING
During 2020, Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation donated cash and products valued at more than 
$38 million to organizations working to increase access to healthcare, foster innovation in STEM education 
and promote community resilience around the world.
BAXTER GLOBAL GIVING, 2020BAXTER AND THE BAXTER INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION 
CHARITABLE GIVING (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS )
 2018      2019 2020
Baxter Product Donations to Aid Organizations*  
Products/Patient Assistance Programs $5.60 $16.81 $24.33
Business and Facility Cash Donations
Within the United States  $1.55 $1.21 $2.05
Outside the United States  $3.81 $3.56 $3.37
Total  $5.36 $4.77 $5.42
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions
Within the United States (including Puerto Rico)  
Grants**  $4.64 $4.77 $6.10
Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers $0.83 $0.81 $0.83 
Scholarships  $0.20 $0.15 $0.39
Prize Programs  $0.41 $0.33 $0.31
Subtotal  $6.08  $6.06 $7.63
Outside the United States  
Grants  $0.43 $0.66 $0.53
Scholarships  $0.15  $0.11 $0.27
Subtotal  $0.58  $0.77 $0.80
Total Foundation Contributions  $6.66 $6.83 $8.43
Total Charitable Giving  $17.62 $28.41 $38.18
*Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in 
community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory 
environment, manufacturing processes and changes in product mix and marketing. 
We identify opportunities to donate and respond to community and humanitarian 
aid partners as appropriate. Value of products donated (provided at no cost) is 
provided by partners based on wholesale acquisition cost at the time of donation. 
This number may be greater or less than the value of Baxter products distributed 
during the year by our relief partners. See Innovation That Expands Access to Care.
Contributions to U.S.-based 501(c)(3) organizations for programs within and 
outside of the United States.*** Reflects programmatic location of Baxter International Foundation grants and scholarships and business and facility cash donations 
mapped by location of Baxter office outside the United States..
#BAXTERGIVESBACK THROUGH EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM AND GIVING, 2020
* Total volunteer hours include personal time and Baxter paid time. Baxter offers U.S. employees two days of paid time off per year to volunteer.Baxter Product Distributed
Cash Contributions*
Both101 countries 
reached through:
employees 
participated 1,180
contributed by the Foundation 
for Matching Gifts and 
Dollars for Doers Programs$832 ,500
employee 
volunteer hours*16 ,875
countries 
reached 17
organizations 
received gifts of time 
and/or money826BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT53Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
EXTERNAL REPORTING STANDARDS
To develop our corporate responsibility reporting approach , 
we have considered the disclosure frameworks and 
guidance of leading sustainability standards and reporting 
organizations, including the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB), the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (UN SDGs) and third-party raters and rankers 
focused on environmental, social and governance issues. 
We were one of the first 
companies to pilot the  
GRI Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines, in 1999, and belong to the GRI 
Community. We referenced the GRI 2016 Sustainability 
Reporting Standards  in the development of this report. 
See the GRI Index  for detail. 
In addition, this report includes our SASB disclosure , 
based on the SASB Medical Equipment and Supplies 
Sustainability Accounting Standard.
FEEDBACK
Readers of this report can provide comments and 
suggestions to us via email:  
corporate_responsibility_report@baxter.com . 
SCOPE OF THIS REPORT
The performance and other data in this report are from 
calendar year 2020 unless stated otherwise. Some 
examples and program descriptions include information 
from 2021.
• This report covers Baxter’s global operations, 
including subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. 
Environmental, health and safety data include joint 
ventures where we have a controlling interest. 
• The performance data in this report do not include 
parts of Baxter that became Baxalta on July 1, 2015, 
unless stated otherwise. 
• All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless 
stated otherwise. • Significant restatements of data compared with prior 
years are noted in the sections where they appear. 
• All references to “new product launches” in this report 
include new product launches and line extensions, 
unless otherwise noted. 
• This report is intended for global use. Please consult 
the appropriate country-specific Baxter website for 
information regarding activities in that country. 
• Some statements in this report about products or 
procedures may differ from the licensed indications in  
specific countries. Therefore, always consult the country-
specific summary of product characteristics, package 
leaflets or instructions for use. For more information, 
please contact a local Baxter representative. 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report contains forward-looking statements 
concerning Baxter, including with respect to compliance, 
future performance, our 2030 Corporate Responsibility 
Commitment and other plans and initiatives. These 
statements are based on assumptions about many 
important factors, including the following, which could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those in 
the forward-looking statements: demand for and market 
acceptance of risks for new and existing products; product 
development risks; product quality or patient safety 
concerns; continuity, availability and pricing of acceptable 
raw materials and component supply; inability to create 
additional production capacity in a timely manner or the 
occurrence of other manufacturing or supply difficulties 
(including as a result of natural disasters, public health 
crises and epidemics/pandemics, regulatory actions or 
otherwise); the impact of global economic conditions 
(including potential trade wars) and public health crises 
and epidemics, such as the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-
19) pandemic, on us and our customers and suppliers, 
including foreign governments in countries in which 
we operate; breaches or failures of our information 
technology systems or products, including by cyberattack, 
unauthorized access or theft; the adequacy of our cash 
flows from operations (which may be negatively impacted 
by collectability concerns as a result of the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise) and other sources of APPENDIX:   About This Report
liquidity to meet our ongoing cash obligations and fund 
our investment program; loss of key employees or inability 
to identify and recruit new employees; future actions of 
regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities, 
including FDA, the Department of Justice, the SEC, the New 
York Attorney General and foreign regulatory agencies, 
including the continued delay in lifting the warning letter 
at our Ahmedabad facility or proceedings related to the 
investigation related to foreign exchange gains and losses; 
the outcome of pending or future litigation, including 
the opioid litigation and litigation related to our internal 
investigation of foreign exchange gains and losses; proposed 
regulatory changes of the U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services in kidney health policy and reimbursement, 
which may substantially change the U.S. end-stage renal 
disease market and demand for our peritoneal dialysis 
products, necessitating significant multiyear capital 
expenditures, which are difficult to estimate in advance; 
failures with respect to compliance programs; accurate 
identification of and execution on business development and 
R&D opportunities and realization of anticipated benefits 
(including the acquisitions of Cheetah Medical; Seprafilm 
Adhesion Barrier; specified outside the United States (OUS) 
rights to Caelyx/Doxil; and full U.S. and specified OUS 
rights to Transderm Scop); future actions of third parties, 
including payers; U.S. healthcare reform and other global 
austerity measures; pricing, reimbursement, taxation and 
rebate policies of government agencies and private payers; 
the impact of competitive products and pricing, including 
generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive 
technologies; fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest 
rates; the ability to enforce owned or in-licensed patents 
or the prevention or restriction of the manufacture, sale or 
use of products or technology affected by patents of third 
parties; global trade and tax policies; any change in laws 
concerning the taxation of income (including current or 
future tax reform), including income earned outside the 
United States and potential taxes associated with the Base 
Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax; actions taken by tax authorities 
in connection with ongoing tax audits; and other risks 
identified in Baxter’s most recent filings on Form 10-K and 
Form 10-Q and other SEC filings, all of which are available 
on Baxter’s website. Baxter does not undertake to update its 
forward-looking statements unless otherwise required by 
the federal securities laws.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT54Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Climate ChangeReducing energy consumption and expanding use of renewable energy in Baxter’s operations and reducing greenhouse  
gas emissions across our value chain; incorporating climate change strategy, including adaptation and resilience planning, 
into relevant business decisions. Learn more.
Community Support  
and VolunteerismSupporting communities in need where Baxter has a presence, with partnerships aimed at addressing economic,  
environmental and social needs, including through financial contributions and employee volunteerism. Learn more.
Diversity and InclusionMaintaining an inclusive, nondiscriminatory hiring process and culture; providing employees equal pay for equal work 
regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation or disability; welcoming, leveraging and appreciating the uniqueness of every 
Baxter employee; and supporting supplier diversity. Learn more.
Employee Attraction, 
Development and RetentionAttracting, engaging and retaining top talent by providing employees career and personal training and development 
opportunities, and designing succession plans to ensure there are qualified Baxter candidates for critical positions;  
upholding labor rights and ensuring that labor concerns can be reported. Learn more.
Ethics and ComplianceProviding an effective corporate governance structure, business processes, marketing standards, and reporting  
mechanisms, and fostering an open culture that demonstrates the highest ethics and anticorruption standards. Learn more.
Health, Safety and Well-BeingProviding employees with a zero-harm workplace, an environment that encourages healthy choices, and resources to  
maintain and improve their health and safety and that of their families. Learn more.
Healthcare Access and 
AffordabilityImproving access to, and affordability of, Baxter products and services for populations in need through product innovation,  
public health initiatives, public policy efforts, business model innovation and strategic giving, which includes product  
donations and grants from the Baxter International Foundation. Learn more.
Human Rights Ensuring workers across Baxter’s value chain are treated in accordance with international standards of human rights. Learn more.
Innovation Investing in innovation that solves for unmet needs and improves patient outcomes and standards of care. Learn more.
Patient Safety and QualityHelping to ensure quality and patient safety across the product life cycle through leading practices in design,  
materials use, manufacturing, communications, surveillance and reporting. Learn more.
Privacy and Data ProtectionProtecting personal information from unauthorized or inappropriate collection, processing and disclosure, and protecting 
information resources from threats, whether internal or external, deliberate or accidental. Learn more.
Product SustainabilityIncorporating and managing sustainability across the product life cycle (R&D and design, materials use including chemicals  
of concern, manufacturing, product transport, packaging, product use and end-of-life), and communicating sustainable  
product attributes to customers. Learn more.
Supply Chain Sustainability Working with suppliers to improve their own sustainability programs and performance, as well as Baxter’s. Learn more.
WasteMinimizing disposal of manufacturing waste from Baxter’s operations, first through source reduction and reuse and then 
through recycling and energy recovery. Learn more.
Water UseReducing water use in Baxter’s operations, increasing reuse, managing water discharge quality and protecting local water 
sources, especially in water-scarce areas. Learn more.ISSUE DESCRIPTION Upstream DownstreamBaxter 
OperationsIMPACT WITHIN VALUE CHAINFor more information about the process we undertook and the key findings of our 2018 assessment,  
see page 6 of our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report.APPENDIX:   Materiality Assessment Findings1 BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT55Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
APPENDIX:   Baxter Data Summary 
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the Employee Health and Safety, Operations, and Responsible Procurement and Logistics content in this section.
 
 
Financial Performance
Net Sales ($ millions)   $11,099 $11,362 $11,673
U.S. Net Sales ($ millions)   $4,723 $4,826 $4,878 
International Net Sales ($ millions)   $6,376 $6,536 $6,795
Net Income ($ millions)   $1,546 $1,011 $1,110 
Stock Price ($ at year end)   $65.82 $83.62 $80.24
Dividend ($ per share)   $0.73 $0.85 $0.955
Research and Development ($ millions)   $654 $595 $521
Product Safety and Quality  
Total Recalls: Medical Device and Drug  
 Within the United States1   16 9 12
 Outside the United States   29 33 27
Recalls: Medical Device Only   
 Within the United States1   12 6 11 
  U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Class I Recalls1  0 0 1
 Outside the United States   9 16 17
Recalls: Drug Only    /uniFEFF
 Within the United States1   4 3 1 
  FDA Class I Recalls1   0 0 0/uniFEFF 
 Outside the United States   20 17 10
Product Recall Rate2 (% of Product Codes Sold)   0.8% 0.7% 0.5%
FDA Inspections and Enforcement Actions3     
Form 483s Received   10 5 0 
 Warning Letters Open   2 1 1 
/uniFEFF Warning Letters Resolved   0 1 0
 Warning Letters Received   1 0 0
 Product Seizure   0 0 0
 Consent Decree   0 0 0
Workforce 
Global Workforce by Job Level (as a % of total)  
 Vice President and Above   0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
 Director   -- --  1.6%
 Manager   -- --  9.2%
 Professional4   24.8% 25.6% 26.2% 
 Technical/Clerical5   63.8% 63.1% 62.7%
Global Workforce by Region (as a % of total)  
 Americas6   49.8% 48.2% 48.2% 
 /uniFEFFEurope, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)   26.6% 27.2% 27.4% 
 /uniFEFFAsia Pacific   23.6% 24.6% 24.3%
 
 
Workforce (continued)
Global Workforce by Gender (as a % of total)  
 Women   48.0% 47.8% 48.0% 
 Men   52.0% 52.2% 52.0%
Representation of Women by Region (as a % of total)     
 Americas6   49.9% 49.6% 49.5% 
 EMEA   48.2% 47.2% 48.1% 
/uniFEFF Asia Pacific   43.7% 44.9% 44.9%
Representation of Women by Job Level (as a % of total)     
 Vice President and Above   33.3% 31.9% 28.7%
 Director   -- -- 34.3%
 Manager   -- -- 42.5% 
 Professional4   /uniFEFF48.7% 47.3% 47.2%
Ethnic Minority Representation (as a % of total, U.S. only)     
 Asian   -- -- 8.6%
 Black/African American   -- -- 9.7%
 Hispanic/Latino   -- -- 18.0% 
 White   /uniFEFF -- -- 61.9%
 Other7   /uniFEFF -- -- 1.8%
Ethnic Minority Representation by Job Level (as a % of total, U.S. only) 38.5% 38.5% 38.1%
 Vice President and Above   19.3% 18.4% 18.0%
 Director   -- -- 23.2%
 Manager   -- -- 27.7% 
 Professional4   30.4% 30.0% 30.9%
 Vice President and Above     
  Asian   -- -- 10.1%
  Black/African American   -- -- 2.2%
  Hispanic/Latino   -- -- 3.4%
  White   /uniFEFF -- -- 82.0%
  Other7   /uniFEFF -- -- 2.3%
 Director     
  Asian   -- -- 9.9%
  Black/African American   -- -- 2.8%
  Hispanic/Latino   -- -- 8.8%
  White   /uniFEFF -- -- 76.8% 
  Other7   /uniFEFF -- -- 1.7%
       SECTION AND INDICATOR   2018 2019 2020 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2018 2019 2020BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT56Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
APPENDIX:   Baxter Data Summary (continued)  
 
 
Workforce (continued)
Ethnic Minority Representation by Job Level (as a % of total, U.S. only)  (continued) 
 Manager     
  Asian   -- -- 15.1%
  Black/African American   -- -- 3.0%
  Hispanic/Latino   -- -- 8.1%
  White   /uniFEFF -- -- 72.3% 
  Other7   /uniFEFF -- -- 1.5%
 Professional4     
  Asian   -- -- 8.6%
  Black/African American   -- -- 5.6%
  Hispanic/Latino   -- -- 14.6%
  White   /uniFEFF -- -- 69.1% 
  Other7   /uniFEFF -- -- 2.1%
Employee Health and Safety8  
Recordable Incident Rate9   0.41 0.39 0.41
 North America   0.72 0.82 0.66
 Latin America   0.26 0.24 0.46  
 EMEA   0.44 0.32 0.40
 Asia Pacific   0.08 0.07 0.08
Cases with Days Lost Rate10   0.084 0.086 0.174
 North America   0.112 0.165 0.180
 Latin America   0.043 0.000 0.249
 EMEA   0.168 0.148 0.255
 Asia Pacific   0.000 0.008 0.023
Days Lost Rate11   2.88 2.14 4.80
 North America   6.54 5.88 7.10
 Latin America   1.02 0.00 2.99
 EMEA   2.36 1.47 7.50
 Asia Pacific   0.00 0.01 1.24
Restricted Days Rate12   6.20 7.83 3.77
 North America   15.23 21.16 9.80 
 Latin America   0.56 0.55 1.61
 EMEA   4.05 3.79 1.35
 Asia Pacific   1.00 1.43 0.86
Days Away (Lost), Restricted or Transferred Rate (DART)   9.08 9.97 8.57
Employee/Contractor Major Incidents (total number)   6/1 5/1 12/0
Employee/Contractor Fatalities (total number)   1/1 0/0 0/0
Health and Safety Notices of Violation Settled   4 3 2
Health and Safety Fines Paid (in dollars)   $7,130 $9,382 $3,450
Sources of Recordable Injury and Serious Incidents (as a % of total)  
 Ergonomic   22% 24% 14%
 Illness   -- -- 18%
 Involving the Body (nonergonomic)   6% 6% 5% 
 Punctures   12% 13% 9%
 
 
Employee Health and Safety8  (continued)  
Sources of Recordable Injury and Serious Incidents (as a % of total) (continued)  
 Struck by Object   16% 15% 13%
 Slips, Trips and Falls    24% 22% 18% 
 Caught In, On or Between   13% 13% 13% 
 Forklifts and Other Vehicles   4% 3% 4% 
 Other   4% 4% 5%
Operations13
Baxter Toxics Release Inventory Air Releases14 (metric tons)   27 30 --
NOx and SOx Emissions15 (metric tons)   543 554 569
 NOx   412 428  435
 SOx    131 126  134
Kg NOx and SOx Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   49 49  49
Energy Usage from Baxter Operations16 (trillions of joules)    9,644 9,916 10,101
 North America   4,036 4,247 4,323
 Latin America   996 972 1,021
 EMEA   2,989 3,078 3,121
 Asia Pacific   1,624 1,619 1,637
Billions of Joules per Million Dollars of Sales   869 873 865
Renewable Energy Usage (trillions of joules)   2,807 2,850 2,795
Facility Usage of Renewable Energy (as a % of total energy use)  /uniFEFF29% 29% 28%
Lean Energy Program Performance17 (% of program criteria implemented
across all manufacturing facilities, at year-end)
 Prerequisite   99% 91% 96% 
 Bronze    96% 85% 90% 
 Silver    85% 74% 82%
 Gold    /uniFEFF66% 56% 64%
Baxter's Global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Footprint 
(Scope 1, 2, and 3) (metric tons CO2e). See Baxter Value Chain   
Energy Usage and GHG Emissions for detail.    5,205,000 4,854,000 4,493,000
GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations18 (metric tons CO2e)   596,000 601,000 611,000 
 North America   247,000 250,000 253,000
 Latin America   68,000 68,000 69,000
 EMEA   120,000 122,000 128,000
 Asia Pacific   161,000 161,000 161,000
GHG Emissions from Operations per Million Dollars of Sales  
(metric tons CO2e)   54 53 52
Total Waste19 (metric tons)   71,300 71,900 69,700
 North America   27,700 28,500 28,800
 Latin America   8,200 8,000 8,200
 EMEA   27,300 25,800 23,000
 Asia Pacific   8,100 9,600 9,700
Metric Tons of Total Waste per Million Dollars of Sales   6.42 6.33 5.97SECTION AND INDICATOR  2018 2019 2020 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2018 2019 2020BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT57Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
APPENDIX:   Baxter Data Summary (continued)  
 
 
Operations13  (continued)
Nonhazardous Waste20 (metric tons)   62,800 62,800 63,500
 North America   25,700 26,100 27,600
 Latin America   6,900 6,600 6,500
 EMEA   22,400 20,800 19,900 
 Asia Pacific   7,800 9,300 9,500
Metric Tons of Nonhazardous Waste per Million Dollars of Sales  5.66 5.52 5.44
Regulated Waste21 (metric tons)   8,500 9,100 6,200 
 North America   2,000 2,400 1,200
 Latin America   1,300 1,400 1,600
 EMEA   4,900 5,000 3,100
 Asia Pacific   300 300 300
Metric Tons of Regulated Waste per Million Dollars of Sales   0.76 0.80 0.53
Waste Management at Baxter (% of total)  
 Recycled (on-site or off-site)   61.4% 56.8% 57.2% 
 Incinerated with Energy Recovery   18.8% 18.1% 19.2% 
 Incinerated   5.1% 5.1% 5.3%
 Sent to Landfill   12.3% 17.0% 16.3%
 Other Disposal   2.4% 3.0% 2.0%
Water Usage (thousand cubic meters)   14,258 14,471 14,430
 North America   5,071 5,204 5,040
 Latin America   1,793 1,734 1,944
 EMEA   /uniFEFF4,278 4,387 4,378
 Asia Pacific   3,116 3,146 3,068
Thousand Cubic Meters Water Usage per Million Dollars of Sales  1.28 1.27 1.24
Water Usage, by Availability22 (thousand cubic meters)   13,820 14,021 13,966 
 Extremely High Water Stress   1,149 1,158 1,261
 High Water Stress   2,855 2,929 2,868 
 Medium-High Water Stress   1,336 1,216 1,141 
 Low-Medium Water Stress   985 2,089 2,192
 Low Water Stress   7,494 6,629 6,504
Wastewater Flow23 (total direct discharge, thousand cubic meters)   3,414 3,514 3,449 
 BOD5 (metric tons)   24 33 20  
 BOD5 (mg/L)   7 9 6 
 COD (metric tons)   61 86 52
 COD (mg/L)   18 24 15 
 TSS (metric tons)   24 44 25
 TSS (mg/L)   7 12 7
Environmental Compliance  
 Environmental Notices of Violation   11 22 6 
 Environmental Fines Paid24 (in dollars)   $79,500 $0 $861
 
 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2018 2019 2020 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2018 2019 2020
Responsible Procurement and Logistics
Spend with Suppliers25 (United States and Puerto Rico)   
(approximate, dollars in billions)    $2.8 $2.9 $2.3
Supplier Diversity26 (dollars in millions)    
 Spend with Small Businesses   $378 $167 $144 
 Spend with Minority-Owned Businesses   $94 $102 $64 
 Spend with Women-Owned Businesses   $80 $96 $84
 Spend with Veteran-Owned Businesses   $13 $4 $6
Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Mode27
(metric tons CO2e)   516,700 440,000  447,400  
 Air   80,400 53,100 105,800   
 Ocean    62,300 51,900 33,200 
 Rail   21,100 21,800 12,400
 Road    352,800 313,200 295,900
Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Region27 
(metric tons CO2e)   516,700 440,000 447,400 
 North America   197,000 164,600 201,900
 Latin America   50,800 64,200 59,000
 EMEA    185,400 164,100 90,100
 Asia Pacific    83,400 47,100  96,400
Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving (dollars in millions)
Total Charitable Giving   $17.62 $28.41 $38.18
Baxter Product Donations to Aid Organizations28
 Products/Patient Assistance Programs   $5.60 $16.81 $24.33
Business and Facility Cash Donations   $5.36 $4.77 $5.42
 Within the United States    $1.55 $1.21 $2.05
 Outside the United States   $3.81 $3.56 $3.37
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions   $6.66 $6.83 $8.43
 Within the United States (including Puerto Rico)   $6.08 $6.06 $7.63
  Grants29   $4.64 $4.77 $6.10
  Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers   $0.83 $0.81 $0.83
  Scholarships   $0.20 $0.15 $0.39
  Prize Programs   $0.41 $0.33 $0.31
 Outside the United States   $0.58 $0.77 $0.80
  Grants   $0.43 $0.66 $0.53
  Scholarships   $0.15 $0.11 $0.27
Political Contributions
See Baxter ’s 2020 Political Contributions Report for detailed data.  BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT58Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
APPENDIX:   Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions 
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
  Units 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020
Baxter Operations3
Scope 1 - Stationary Sources (facilities)
Natural Gas  Million Cubic Meters 111 114 121 4,263 4,384 4,631 $32.8 $34.7 $33.0 214 221 234
Fuel Oil Million Liters 6 5 6 248 208 235 $3.5 $3.1 $3.3 17 15 17
Propane and LPG Million Kilograms 7 7 8 341 359 363 $5.7 $5.1 $4.6 21 22 22
Biomass4 Million Kilograms 135 144 138 940 986 966 $3.2 $4.4 $5.6  2 2 2
Subtotal  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a 5,792 5,937 6,195 $45.2 $47.3 $46.5 254 260 275
Scope 1 - Mobile Sources (Baxter-operated vehicles)5
Aviation Fuel Million Liters 0.4 0.4 0.3 13 14 9 $0.2 $0.3 $0.2 1 1 1
Gasoline  Million Liters 5.2 6.8 4.4 189 245 158 $6.0 $8.7 $4.8 12 15 10
Diesel Fuel   Million Liters 6.5 7.2 6.7 252 275 258 $5.9 $6.6 $4.1 18 19 18
Subtotal Million Liters  12.1 14.4 11.4 454 534 425 $12.1 $15.6 $9.1 31 35 29
Refrigerants6
Refrigerant Losses (facilities) Metric Tons /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 9 8 8
Scope 1 Total    /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 294 303 312
Scope 2 - Electricity and Purchased Steam    
Electricity (purchased)7 Million Kilowatt-Hours 988 995 983 3,578 3,599 3,555 $107.6 $112.0 $109.7 274 268 269
Electricity (on-site renewable) Million  Kilowatt-Hours 4 3 2 13 12 7 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Cogen Losses Million  Kilowatt-Hours 46 68 61 166 245 220 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Purchased Steam Million Kilograms 48 54 54 113 124 126 $1.5 $1.7 $1.4 30 30 30
Scope 2 Total (market-based)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 304 298 299
Scope 2 Total (location-based)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 430 412 409
Baxter Operations Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a 10,116 10,451 10,528 $166.4 $176.6 $166.7 598 601 611
Scope 3 Emissions  
Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1)8  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 787 805 827
Capital Goods (Category 2)9  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 82 87 89
Fuel and Energy-related Activities (Category 3)10  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 147 148 150
Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 4)11  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 517 440 432
Waste Generated in Operations (Category 5)12  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 13 15 14
Business Travel (Category 6)13  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 54 51 12
Employee Commuting (Category 7)14  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 29 29 30
Upstream Leased Assets (Category 8)15  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Downstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 9)16  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 132 131 136
Processing of Sold Products (Category 10)17  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 17 16 17
Use of Sold Products (Category 11)18  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 2,658 2,366 2,014
End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products (Category 12)18  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 171 165 161
Downstream Leased Assets (Category 13)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Franchises (Category 14)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Investments (Category 15)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Scope 3 Emissions Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 4,607 4,253 3,882
Total  GHG E missions19 /uniFEFF n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 5,205 4,854 4,493ENERGY USAGE JOULES
(TRILLIONS)ENERGY COSTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENTS1,2
(THOUSAND METRIC TONS)BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT59Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
APPENDIX:   Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 and Green Building Certifications1 
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
 
 
North America
Canada, Ontario Alliston X X 
Canada, Ontario Mississauga    Canada LEED Silver (2014) 
United States, Alabama Opelika X X 
United States, Arkansas Mountain Home/Midway  X X X 
United States, California Hayward X X 
United States, California Irvine X  
United States, Illinois Round Lake , Manufacturing  X  X 
United States, Illinois Round Lake, R&D    LEED Silver (2013)3
United States, Indiana Bloomington X X
United States, Minnesota St. Paul X 
United States, Mississippi Cleveland X X X
United States, New York Medina X 
United States, North Carolina Marion (North Cove) X X
Latin America    
Brazil São Paulo X X X 
Colombia Cali X X X
Dominican Republic Haina X X   
Costa Rica Cartago X X X 
Mexico Atlacomulco X X 
Mexico Cuernavaca X X
Mexico Tijuana X   
Puerto Rico Aibonito X X
Puerto Rico Guayama X  
Puerto Rico Jayuya X
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Belgium Lessines X X X
Belgium Lessines BDCE X X X
France Jonage-Lyon X   BREEAM Good (2011)
France Meyzieu X  X  
Germany Bielefeld X X X
Germany Halle Westfalen X X X
Germany Hechingen X X X
Greece Athens (Herakleio) X
Ireland Castlebar X X X
Ireland Swinford X X Region/Country/ City ISO ISO ISO Green Building
State/Province  14001 450012 50001 CertificationRegion/Country/ City ISO ISO ISO Green Building
State/Province  14001 450012 50001 Certification
Europe, Middle East and Africa (continued)
Ireland Dublin/Blackrock X
Ireland Dublin/Sandyford X  
Italy Grosotto X X X 
Italy Medolla X X  
Italy Rome X X  Italia LEED Gold (2015 )
Italy Sesto Fiorentino X X 
Italy Sondalo X X X
Malta Marsa X X X 
Portugal Sintra X X
Spain Sabiñánigo X X X
Spain Valencia X X
Sweden Lund X  
Sweden Rosersberg    EU GreenBuilding (2011)
Switzerland Zurich    Minergie Plus (2010)
Tunisia Oued Ellil X X 
United Kingdom Elstree X  
United Kingdom Croydon  X  
United Kingdom Northampton X X 
United Kingdom Stockport X X 
United Kingdom Oxford X X 
United Kingdom Thetford X X
Asia Pacific
Australia Toongabbie X X X
China Guangzhou X X
China Shanghai X X
China Suzhou X X
China Tianjin X X
India Ahmedabad, Office    LEED Gold (2018)
Japan Miyazaki X
New Zealand Auckland X X
Philippines Canlubang X X
Singapore Woodlands X X X 
Thailand Amata XBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT60Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
APPENDIX:   Independent Assurance Statement
To: The Stakeholders of Baxter International Inc.
Introduction and Objectives of Work
Baxter International Inc. (Baxter) engaged Apex 
Companies, LLC (Apex) to provide assurance of 
selected sections of Baxter’s 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report. 
This Assurance Statement applies to the Subject Matter included 
within the scope of work described below.
This information and its presentation in Baxter’s 2020 Corporate 
Responsibility Report (“the Report”) are the sole responsibility of the 
management of Baxter. Apex was not involved in the drafting of the 
Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance 
on the accuracy of the Subject Matter. Baxter’s 2020 Corporate 
Responsibility Report marks the 12th year for which we have provided 
assurance.
Scope of Work
The scope of our work was reasonable-level assurance of the following 
information included within the Report for the period January 1, 2020  
to December 31, 2020 (the “Subject Matter”).
Data and information included in the following sections of the Report:
• Product Innovation (except the Patient Safety and Quality subsection)
• Employee Health and Safety
• Operations
> Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions verification is documented  
under a separate verification opinion declaration
Related material in the Report Appendix, including:
• Baxter Data Summary—Employee Health and Safety and Operations 
subsections
• Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
• Facilities with ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 and Green Building 
Certifications
The scope of work also included limited-level assurance of the  
following Subject Matter:
• Data and information included in the following section of the Report:
> Responsible Procurement and Logistics
• Related material in the Report Appendix:
> Baxter Data Summary—Responsible Procurement and Logistics 
subsection
Our assurance does not extend to any other information included  
in the Report.
Reporting Boundaries
The following are the boundaries Baxter used for reporting 
sustainability data:
• Operational control
• Worldwide
Reporting Criteria
The Subject Matter needs to be read and understood together with 
Baxter’s internal reporting requirements for facility environmental, 
health, safety and sustainability performance, as well as information 
described in the text, appendix, data tables and notes of the Report.
Limitations and Exclusions
Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information 
relating to:
• Activities outside the defined assurance period, which is the  
2020 calendar year• Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or  
future intention) by Baxter and statements of future commitment
• Any financial data previously audited by an external third party
• Data and information included in sections of the Report not listed in 
the scope of work above
This assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected sample  
of sustainability data and the associated limitations that this entails. 
This independent statement should not be relied upon to detect all 
errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist.
Responsibilities
The preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the Report 
are the sole responsibility of the management of Baxter. Apex was not 
involved in the drafting of the Report or of the Reporting Criteria. Our 
responsibilities were to:
• Provide independent assurance about whether the Subject Matter  
has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria
• Form an independent conclusion based on the assurance procedures 
performed and evidence obtained
• Report our conclusions to the stakeholders of Baxter
Assessment Standards
We performed our work in accordance with Apex’s standard 
procedures and guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability 
Reports and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance 
reports dated on or after Dec. 15, 2015), issued by the International 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A materiality threshold of 
±5% was set for the assurance process.
The work was planned and carried out to provide reasonable, rather 
than absolute, assurance of the Subject Matter except for the 
Responsible Procurement and Logistics section of the Report, which 
was carried out to provide limited assurance. We believe that our 
work provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.
Summary of Work Performed
As part of our independent verification, our work included:
• Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the 
Subject Matter
• Conducting interviews with relevant Baxter personnel who are 
responsible for collecting and reporting performance data and 
other Subject Matter
• Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Baxter
• Reviewing Baxter’s systems for quantitative data aggregation and 
analysis during remote meetings with personnel from Baxter’s 
offices in Round Lake and Deerfield, Illinois
• Assessing assumptions made and the data scope and reporting 
boundaries. Auditing consolidated performance data, including 
review of a sample of data-to-source documentation
• Auditing a selection of the Subject Matter to the corresponding 
source documentation
• Auditing performance data during virtual assessments to 
operating sites located in: Castlebar, Ireland; Cuernavaca, 
Mexico; Halle, Germany; Hayward, California; Tianjin, China; and 
Toongabbie, Australia
• Assessing the disclosure and presentation of the Subject Matter 
with emphasis on principles of accuracy, accessibility, balance, 
clarity, comparability, reliability and timeliness and to ensure 
consistency with the Reporting CriteriaConclusion
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described 
above, it is our opinion that the Subject Matter within the Product 
Innovation (except the Patient Safety and Quality subsection), 
Employee Health and Safety, and Operations sections of the Report, 
as well as related material in the Report Appendix:
• Is presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria and is, in all 
material respects, fairly stated
• Is presented in a clear, understandable and accessible manner
• Allows readers to form a balanced opinion of Baxter’s activities 
and performance during calendar year 2020
Also, on the basis of our methodology and the activities described 
above:
• Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the data 
and information in the Responsible Procurement and Logistics 
section of the Report are inaccurate or that the information is 
not fairly stated.
• It is also our opinion that Baxter has established appropriate 
systems for the collection, aggregation, analysis and review of the 
Subject Matter.
Additional Commentary
During the assurance process, Apex observed that Baxter 
continues to improve its overall data collection and reporting 
processes at the site and corporate level. Opportunities for 
improving facility-level data collection, reporting and procedural 
documentation at some facilities were noted.
We recommend that Baxter corporate personnel continue to support 
individual facility personnel with collection and consolidation of site-
specific metrics that are included in reporting.
Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence
Apex is an independent professional services company that 
specializes in health, safety, social and environmental management 
services, including assurance, with more than 30 years history in 
providing these services.
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to 
maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day 
business activities.
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with 
Baxter International Inc., or its directors or managers, beyond that 
required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification 
independently, and there has been no conflict of interest.
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting 
assurance on health, safety, social, environmental and ethical 
information, systems and processes. The team has more than 
20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent 
understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the assurance of 
sustainability-related assertions.
JOHN A. ROHDE  
Apex Companies LLC   |   Lakewood, COTREVOR DONAGHU  
Apex Companies LLC   |   Pleasant Hill, CA
May 20, 2021 BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT61Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
This index includes and references information related to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Medical Equipment and Supplies Sustainability Accounting 
Standard. Data are calendar year 2020, unless stated otherwise.APPENDIX:   Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 
TOPIC CODE SASB METRIC 2020 REPORTING
Affordability  
& PricingHC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of 
net price increases (for all products) 
to the annual increase in the U.S. 
Consumer Price IndexBaxter does not disclose this data. See Contractual Arrangements in Baxter’s 
2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K (page 2) for information about some factors that 
impact product pricing.
HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information 
for each product is disclosed to 
customers or to their agentsBaxter products are sold through contracts with customers, both within and outside 
the United States. Some of these contracts have terms of more than one year and 
place limits on our ability to increase prices; some contracts also specify minimum 
quantities to be purchased by the customer; and some contracts may include 
variable consideration related to rebates, sales discounts and/or wholesaler 
chargebacks. Our customers include hospitals, governments, kidney dialysis 
centers and other organizations. Both in the United States and outside, hospitals 
and other customers have joined purchasing entities, such as group purchasing 
organizations, integrated delivery networks and public contracting authorities, to 
enhance purchasing power.
See the Contractual Arrangements, Competition and Healthcare Cost Containment, 
and Revenue Recognition sections in Baxter's 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Product Safety HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued,  
total units recalledDuring 2020, Baxter issued
• Eleven medical device product recalls that were reported to FDA and removed from 
the market or corrected1 
• Zero medical device product recalls that were not reported to FDA 
• Sixteen medical device product recalls that were reported to non-U.S.  
national regulatory authorities and removed from the market or corrected 
See Patient Safety and Quality and Baxter Data Summary for information about the 
company’s product improvements and recall data, inclusive of drug-related recalls.
HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s 
MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human 
Medical Products databaseAs of December 31, 2020, the MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products 
database included the following Baxter medical device product:  
Sigma Spectrum Infusion Pumps (V6, V8 and IQ).
Baxter issued an Urgent Device Correction to reinforce important safety information 
regarding cleaning practices and communicated that Spectrum Instructions for 
Use would be clarified to emphasize that deviations from the specified cleaning 
methods may impair pump functionality and performance.BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT62Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
TOPIC CODE SASB METRIC 2020 REPORTING
Product Safety  
(continued)HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to 
products as reported in the FDA 
Manufacturer and User Facility 
Device ExperienceUnder FDA regulations, manufacturers and device user facilities must report 
information that reasonably suggests a medical device may have caused or 
contributed to a fatality or serious injury. Manufacturers must also submit to FDA 
reports of certain malfunctions. Such reports for Baxter’s medical devices are 
available here: Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience.
HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement  
actions taken in response to 
violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP),  
by typeIn 2020, Baxter received 
• Zero Form 483s
• Zero warning letters
• Zero seizures 
• Zero consent decrees
See Patient Safety and Quality as well as Certain Regulatory Matters in Baxter’s 
2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K for related information.
Ethical 
MarketingHC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary  
losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with false 
marketing claimsIn 2020, Baxter had no monetary losses due to legal proceedings associated with 
false marketing claims that were previously reported in any company Exchange 
Act filing s.
HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics 
governing promotion of off-label use 
of productsOff-label promotion is strictly prohibited at Baxter. See the Baxter Code of Conduct 
and the Baxter Global Interactions Policy . See Ethics and Compliance for information 
about the company's approach in this area.
Product Design 
& Lifecycle 
ManagementHC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and 
manage environmental and human 
health considerations associated 
with chemicals in products, and meet 
demand for sustainable productsSee Sustainable Design and Materials Use for information about the company's 
approach in this area.
HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted 
for takeback and reused, recycled, or 
donated, broken down by: (1) devices 
and equipment and (2) suppliesSee Product End-of-Life for product recovery data and information about the 
company's approach in this area.APPENDIX:   Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index (continued) BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT63Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
TOPIC CODE SASB METRIC 2020 REPORTING
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity's facilities 
and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities 
participating in third-party audit 
programs for manufacturing and 
product qualityBetween 2018 and 2020, approximately 36% of Baxter's total facilities worldwide 
completed third-party audits based on ISO 13485 or ISO 9001 (including through the 
Medical Device Single Audit Program), approximately 55%2 completed ministry of 
health or equivalent audits (depending on location) related to manufacturing and 
product quality, and nearly 10% completed safety marking (such as CE marking) audits.
As of December 31, 2020, 28% of Baxter's Tier I suppliers had obtained third-party 
certification. See Patient Safety and Quality and Supplier Audits for related information.  
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to  
maintain traceability within the 
distribution chainBaxter has a range of systems and processes to maintain traceability of materials 
throughout the product supply and distribution chain: 
• Traceability of materials from suppliers to Baxter, and throughout the 
manufacturing process, is maintained utilizing electronic systems. 
• Products manufactured by Baxter are labeled with an identifier that is traceable 
from the manufacturing process to the customer and may utilize barcoding 
and sterilization technology to facilitate electronic track-and-trace capability. 
Enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems are used to manage traceability to 
the point of sale. Baxter has business agreements with our wholesalers to ensure 
traceability is maintained within their distribution chains, and we can access 
related information if needed. 
• Baxter maintains a range of compliance-focused initiatives to help ensure all products 
are labeled as required by local and regional regulations to enable traceability. 
See section 7.11, Product Identification and Traceability of the Baxter Supplier 
Quality Standard and Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism program 
content in Industry Collaboration  for more information. 
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management  
of risks associated with the use of  
critical materialsSee Baxter’s Position Statement on Conflict Minerals and our most recent Conflict 
Minerals Report. Baxter does not currently disclose its management of risks for other 
critical materials.
Business 
EthicsHC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as  
a result of legal proceedings associated 
with bribery or corruptionIn 2020, Baxter had no monetary losses due to legal proceedings associated with 
bribery or corruption that were previously reported in any company Exchange Act filings. 
See Ethics and Compliance for information about the company's approach in this area.
HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing 
interactions with health care 
professionalsSee Baxter’s Global Interactions Policy and Ethics and Compliance  for information 
about the company's approach in this area.
Baxter has adopted the AdvaMed Code of Ethics and also belongs to similar industry 
and professional associations around the world. See Professional Codes of Ethics 
and Industry Standards on Baxter's Ethics and Compliance  page for information.APPENDIX:   Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index (continued) BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT64Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
This index references information related to disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016. The reported information may meet in part 
or in full the requirements of each GRI disclosure listed. APPENDIX:   Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 
Disclosure Disclosure
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Company Profile
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Baxter 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-3 Location of headquarters Baxter's corporate headquarters is in  
Deerfield, Illinois.
102-4 Location of operations Baxter 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-5 Ownership and legal form Baxter International Inc. (BAX) is a publicly  
traded company listed on the New York  
Stock Exchange.
102-6 Markets served Baxter 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization Operations; Baxter 2020 Annual Report  
on Form 10-K
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Baxter Data Summary
102-9 Supply chain Responsible Procurement and Logistics;  
Baxter Data Summary
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and  
its supply chainBaxter 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Patient Safety and Quality ; Sustainable Design; 
Materials Use
102-12 External initiatives Examples are included throughout this report.
102-13 Membership of associations We engage with external organizations to help 
drive progress on a broad range of corporate 
responsibility issues. Examples include Advanced 
Medical Technology Association, Clean Cargo, the 
Ceres Company Network, Global Logistics Emissions 
Council Partnership, the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Community, Healthcare Plastics Recycling 
Council, MedTech Europe, National Association for 
EHS&S Management, National Minority Supplier 
Development Council, ORC HSE, Partnership for 
Quality Medical Donations, Pharmaceutical Supply 
Chain Initiative, Sustainable Healthcare Coalition, 
Vinyl Council of Australia and others .
Strategy 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker From the Chairman and CEO
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms  
of behaviorProtecting Human Rights; Ethics and Compliance;  
Responsible Procurement
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns  
about ethicsEthics and Compliance HelplineGRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 (continued)
Governance 
102-18 Governance structure Our Governance
102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Responsibility Governance  
and Management
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental and social topicsCorporate Responsibility Governance  
and Management
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body  
and its committeesOur Governance
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Our Governance
Organizational Profile
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest  
governance bodyCorporate Governance Guidelines
102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Guidelines
102-31 Review of economic, environmental and  
social topicsCorporate Responsibility
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Baxter 2021 Proxy Statement
102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Guidelines;  
Baxter 2021 Proxy Statement
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance Guidelines
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement
Reporting Practice 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statementsBaxter 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality
102-47 List of material topics Materiality
102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2020
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle Yearly
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report corporate_responsibility_report@baxter.com
102-55 GRI content index This section
102-56 External assurance Assurance and Verification2020 Reporting 2020 ReportingBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT65Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
Disclosure Disclosure
GRI 200 Economic Standard Series
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Management approach Innovation That Expands Access to Care;  
Serving Our Communities; Materiality  
Assessment Findings
201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributedServing Our Communities ; Baxter Data Summary ; 
Baxter 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeBaxter CDP submission
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
Management approach Innovation That Expands Access to Care;  
Serving Our Communities; Materiality  
Assessment Findings
203-1 Infrastructure investments and  
services supportedInnovation That Expands Access to Care;  
Serving Our Communities
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Innovation That Expands Access to Care;  
Serving Our Communities
GRI 205: Anticorruption 2016
Management approach Ethics and Compliance; Materiality  
Assessment Findings
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruptionEthics and Compliance
205-2 Communication and training about  
anticorruption policies and proceduresEthics and Compliance
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series
GRI 301: Materials 2016
Management approach Sustainable Design; Materials Use;  
Product End-of-Life; Materiality  
Assessment Findings
301-3 Reclaimed products and their  
packaging materialsProduct End-of-Life
GRI 302: Energy 2016
Management approach Operations; Energy ; Materiality  
Assessment Findings
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy ; Baxter Data Summary ; Baxter Value  
Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
302-3 Energy intensity Energy ; Baxter Data Summary
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption EnergyGRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (continued)
GRI 303: Water 2016
Management approach Operations; Water and Wastewater ;  
Materiality Assessment Findings
303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water and Wastewater ; Baxter Data Summary
303-2 Water sources significantly affected by  
withdrawal of waterWater and Wastewater ; Baxter Data Summary
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Management approach Operations; GHG Emissions Across the Value  
Chain; GHG Emissions from Operations;  
Materiality Assessment Findings
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain; GHG  
Emissions from Operations; Baxter Data Summary ; 
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain; GHG  
Emissions from Operations; Baxter Data Summary ; 
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain;  
Baxter Data Summary ; Baxter Value Chain Energy 
Usage and GHG Emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG Emissions from Operations; Baxter Data Summary
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG Emissions from Operations
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX)  
and other significant air emissionsBaxter Data Summary
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Management approach Operations; Waste ; Materiality   
Assessment Findings
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Baxter Data Summary
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste ; Baxter Data Summary
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016
Management approach Operations
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulationsEnvironmental, Health and Safety Performance;  
Baxter Data Summary
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
Management approach Managing Procurement Risks; Supplier  
Corporate Responsibility Survey ; Supplier Audits;  
Materiality Assessment Findings 
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the  
supply chain and actions takenSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  
Green Logistics; Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage 
and GHG Emissions2020 Reporting 2020 ReportingAPPENDIX:   Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued)BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT66Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
APPENDIX:   Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index (continued)
Disclosure Disclosure 2020 Reporting 2020 Reporting
GRI 400 Social Standards Series
GRI 401: Employment 2016
Management approach Workplace Culture; Materiality   
Assessment Findings
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Voluntary employee turnover was 9.2% in 2020.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees  
that are not provided to temporary or  
part-time employeesCompensation and Benefits  
All benefits are generally provided to full-time  
and part-time employees.
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding  
operational changesMinimum notice period varies by country. The 
length of the notice period is dependent on the  
type of change being made. Baxter is committed  
to providing appropriate notice and follows all 
relevant consultation and notice requirements.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016
Management approach Employee Health and Safety ; Materiality 
Assessment Findings
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and 
number of work-related fatalitiesEmployee Health and Safety ; Baxter Data Summary
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Management approach Performance and Career Development;  
Manager and Leadership Development;  
Materiality Assessment Findings
404-1 Average hours of training per year  
per employeePerformance and Career Development
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills  
and transition assistance programsPerformance and Career Development;  
Manager and Leadership Development
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Management approach Global Inclusion and Diversity ; Materiality 
Assessment Findings
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Baxter Data Summary ; Our Leadership
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
Management approach Responsible Procurement; Materiality Assessment 
Findings; Baxter Global Human Rights Policy ; 
Baxter Code of Conduct; Baxter Supplier Quality 
Standard; Ethics and Compliance Standards for 
Baxter Suppliers
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk  
for incidents of child laborSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  
Supplier AuditsGRI 400 Social Standards Series (continued)
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
Management approach Responsible Procurement; Materiality Assessment 
Findings; Baxter Global Human Rights Policy ; 
Baxter Code of Conduct; Baxter Supplier Quality 
Standard; Ethics and Compliance Standards for 
Baxter Suppliers; Baxter California Transparency 
in Supply Chains Act Position Statement; Baxter UK 
Modern Slavery Statement; Baxter Conflict Minerals 
Position Statement
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk  
for incidents of forced or compulsory laborSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  
Supplier Audits
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
Management approach Managing Procurement Risks; Supplier  
Corporate Responsibility Survey ; Supplier Audits;  
Materiality Assessment Findings
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 
and actions takenSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  
Supplier Audits
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
Management approach Public Policy
415-1 Political contributions Baxter 2020 Political Contributions Report
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
Management approach Patient Safety and Quality ; Sustainable Design; 
Materials Use; Materiality Assessment Findings
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts  
of product and service categoriesPatient Safety and Quality ; Sustainable Design
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning  
the health and safety impacts of products  
and servicesBaxter 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
Management approach Privacy and Data Protection; Materiality 
Assessment Findings
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016
Management approach Ethics and Compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in  
the social and economic areaBaxter 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-KBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT67Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
INTRODUCTION
1 As of December 31, 2020.
2 Estimated energy and financial savings as well as GHG emissions avoidance are calculated for the 12 months following project implementation.  
2020 PRIORITIES AND GOALS
1 This represents the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packaging 
innovation was implemented.
2 Comparison based on global safety data reported by 23 global companies across industries. Data are reported through ORC HSE or on 
the companies' public websites.
3 Includes spending with women-owned businesses and minority-owned businesses. Spending with suppliers that certify for more than one 
classification is counted only once. United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).
PRODUCT INNOVATION
1 Data on file. Efficiency Test Canister . Berlin: ZeoSys Medical; 2020.
2 Morris, G., Parker, B. and Pierce, J., "Reducing theatre energy consumption," Health Estate Journal , March 2014, 58–62.
3 This represents the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packaging 
innovation was implemented.
WORKPLACE CULTURE
1 As of December 31, 2020.
2 The survey was administered via email. Employees without a Baxter email address, such as those in manufacturing, did not participate.
3 Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa. The global average database includes more than 400 companies and more than 19 million 
responses. Top quartile is a subset of the global average.
4 Managers are eligible to receive the scorecard if they have five or more direct reports and at least five of their direct reports 
responded to the survey. The surveys were administered via email. Employees without a Baxter email address, such as those in 
manufacturing, did not participate.
5 These data do not represent all employee training and development, but do capture a large portion of training for most employees.
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
1 Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa. The global average database includes more than 400 companies and more than 19 million 
responses. Top quartile is a subset of the global average.
2 The number of cases closed during any given year typically includes some cases opened before the beginning of the year. 
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY
1 See Baxter Data Summary endnotes 9 –12 for definitions of the injury and illness metrics used in this section.
2 Comparison based on global safety data reported by 23 global companies across industries. Data are reported through ORC HSE or on 
the companies' public websites.
3 Each year, profiles untouched for the previous three years are removed from the active database.  
OPERATIONS
1 The environmental data included in this report are based on 117 reporting locations, of which 51 are manufacturing, 19 are 
warehouse, and 47 are pharmacies, administrative, clerical or other. Several of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that 
report as a single entity. For example, in 2020, Baxter’s 46 renal therapy sites in Colombia reported as a single entity. The reporting 
scope excludes certain leased facilities for which environmental performance data are not available or are not material to Baxter’s 
overall environmental performance. The health and safety data included in this report are based on 179 reporting locations. The 
Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) information reported covers 100% of Baxter’s operations unless noted 
otherwise. EHS&S data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant closings as well as to incorporate any corrections 
necessary due to additional data verification activities (such as EHS&S audits). See the Baxter Data Summary for additional detail.
2 For the purpose of this calculation, our sites in Sondalo, Italy, and Grosotto, Italy, are counted separately.  
3 COVID-19 pandemic and related business and governmental travel restrictions resulted in a 27% decrease in overall corporate and 
external assurance audits conducted in 2020.
4 Estimated energy and financial savings as well as GHG emissions avoidance are calculated for the 12 months following project implementation. 
5 Includes manufacturing facilities with energy costs that exceed $200,000 per year and excludes two sites that underwent significant 
change or expansion in production during the reporting year.
6 One cubic meter equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.
7  Low―Less than 10% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
 Low-Med―Between 10 and 20% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
 Med-High―Between 20 and 40% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
 High―Between 40 and 80% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
 Extremely High―More than 80% of the water available to agricultural, domestic, and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
8 To more closely reflect production efficiency and support consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends, we exclude certain 
nonroutine, nonproduction-related waste streams from our total waste performance data and progress against our 2020 waste goal. 
These waste streams are construction and demolition debris, remediation waste and wastewater treatment sludge.OPERATIONS  (CONTINUED )
9 We report “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste.” This term includes some materials that would otherwise be classified as 
nonhazardous waste in some countries, which helps Baxter harmonize waste reporting across locations. In addition to wastes typically 
considered hazardous (such as toxics and corrosives), we also include oils, biohazardous or infectious materials, batteries, fluorescent 
lamps, asbestos and other materials that may not be defined as hazardous waste by national legislation at the point of origin.
10 Incineration with energy recovery is considered recycling.
11 Certain waste streams at two facilities in Europe have government-mandated requirements. These waste streams are excluded 
from the total.
12 Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have a high level of certainty and have been verified for the past nine years to a reasonable 
assurance level by Apex Companies LLC. Scope 3 categories are based on various assumptions and estimates. For the past 
eight years, Apex Companies LLC has verified to a limited assurance level Baxter’s methodology and emission factors for 
calculating Scope 3 GHG emissions. The market-based method is used for Scope 2 unless otherwise stated. Data in this report 
are presented in accordance with the GHG Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting 
and Reporting Standard.
13 In 2020, we used biomass fuels to generate energy in boilers at two Baxter locations, one in the United States and one in Italy. 
During the year, emissions from the Baxter-operated biomass boilers equaled 149,000 metric tons CO2. In accordance with the 
GHG Protocol, these are not included in reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. However, also in accordance with the GHG 
Protocol, we include CO2e emissions from the CH4 and N2O components of biomass combustion in our reported Scope 1 emissions.
14 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power Partnership Fortune 500 Partners List. As of October 19, 2020.
RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT AND LOGISTICS
1 Includes spending with women-owned businesses and minority-owned businesses. Spending with suppliers that certify 
for more than one classification is counted only once. United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through 
September 30 of the year noted).
2 October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020. “Indirect” includes impacts at the businesses from which suppliers (and their suppliers) 
purchase goods and services. “Induced” includes impacts generated in the communities of the suppliers’ employees associated with 
purchases made by these employees and jobs supported through those purchases.
3 Includes Scope 1 and Scope 3 GHG emissions for product transport.
4 Based on https://associated-pallets.co.uk/blog/environmental-impact-recycling-wooden-pallets/ . Last accessed February, 2021.
INNOVATION THAT EXPANDS ACCESS TO CARE
1 Source: https://www.kidney.org/kidneydisease/global-facts-about-kidney-disease. Last accessed June, 2021.
2 United States Renal Data System (USRDS), 2020 Annual Data Report: Epidemiology of Kidney Disease in the United States, available 
at https://adr.usrds.org/2020/end-stage-renal-disease/1-incidence-prevalence-patient-characteristics-and-treatment-modalities. 
Last accessed June, 2021.
SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES
1 5,000 in 2019 and 2,500 in 2020.
2 This figure is lower than reported in 2019 due to a difference in the calculation methodology. 
3 For employee donations to qualifying U.S. public charities. Houses of worship and political organizations are not eligible for the 
Foundation Matching Gift Program. 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT FINDINGS
1 In this report, we are not using the terms “material” and “materiality” as defined for the purposes of financial and SEC reporting 
in the United States. Instead, the terms refer to environmental, social and economic issues that are of significant importance to 
our stakeholders and to the company. These “material” issues inform our corporate responsibility strategy, priorities and goals, 
and reporting. The issues in this table are listed in alphabetical order. The listing does not reflect the presumed importance or 
“materiality” of any particular issue to Baxter or our stakeholders.
BAXTER DATA SUMMARY
1 Differences compared with data on FDA websites may be due to timeframe (the date Baxter takes an action may differ from the date 
FDA classifies that action), definition of “recall” (FDA data includes actions taken even if the product is not removed or corrected), and 
classification by product group vs. product code (FDA counts each impacted product code within a product family as a distinct recall).
2 Product Recall Rate is defined as the number of unique product codes corrected or removed from the market per total Baxter 
owned unique product codes sold globally.
3 As of 2020, Baxter had 56 FDA-registered establishments available for inspection.
4 “Professional” includes individual contributors.
5 “Technical/Clerical” includes employees in operational and administrative/clerical roles.
6  Americas includes the United States (with Puerto Rico), Canada and Latin America.
7 "Other" includes American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races.
8 The regional breakdown of the data included in this section reflects the structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and 
Sustainability (EHS&S) organization and the categorization of data in the EHS&S global information management system through 2020.APPENDIX:   EndnotesBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT68Product 
InnovationWorkplace 
CultureEthics and 
ComplianceAppendix Innovation 
That Expands 
Access to CareServing Our 
CommunitiesEmployee 
Health and 
SafetyResponsible 
Procurement 
and LogisticsOperations 2030 
Commitment 
and Goals2020 
Priorities 
and GoalsIntroduction
BAXTER DATA SUMMARY (CONTINUED )
9 Work-related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first aid, including cases with days lost. All rates based on 100 
full-time employees working one year, which equals 200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter follows U.S. Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping requirements worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and conflicting 
medical opinions arise as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, we record on the basis of the 
most authoritative physician’s opinion. We include occupational diseases and illnesses, such as hearing loss and ergonomic disorders, 
within our broader categories of cases, but do not track or report those items separately. Due to privacy regulations in our Europe, 
Middle East and Africa region, we do not classify or report injuries by gender. Supervised contracted employees are included in the 
injury statistics reported below and are not tracked separately. Independent contractors are not included in Baxter’s injury data, 
because they are supervised by other organizations.
10 Work-related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident. 
11 The number of days lost (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion due to 
work-related injuries or illnesses. We do not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as lost days.
12 The number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is 
unable to work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work-related injury or illness. We do not count the date of injury 
and date of return to full duty as restricted days. 
13The regional breakdown of the data included in this section reflects the structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
(EHS&S) organization and the categorization of data in the EHS&S global information management system through 2020. Some data for 
2018 and 2019 are updated from data reported in the Baxter 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, to improve accuracy and in the case 
of GHG emissions to reflect updated GHG emission factors. Some totals vary from sum of items in category, due to rounding. 
14 Values correspond to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) Program data reported for reporting 
years 2018 and 2019. It includes facilities in the continental United States only. 
15 Includes air emissions associated with on-site energy generation. Emission factors from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
publication “Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors,” AP-42, Fifth Edition, Volume 1: “Stationary Point and Area Sources.”
16Excludes energy consumption associated with Baxter-operated mobile sources and renewable electricity generated on site.  
17 Baxter’s Lean Energy Program began in 2007. Early in 2016, we introduced new Lean Energy Program requirements and updated 
some existing ones to better align the program with ISO 50001 requirements for energy management. 
18 Data differ slightly from the 2018 total stated in the Baxter Operations Total line of the Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG 
Emissions table, due to rounding.
19 Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations, since patients dispose of unused product rather than returning it to 
Baxter for disposal. Also excludes construction and demolition debris, remediation waste and wastewater treatment sludge. Removing 
these waste categories from the company total allows for more consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends over time. 
20 Excludes production by-products reused on-site, construction and demolition debris, and wastewater treatment sludge. Includes 
discarded/returned products (such as intravenous solution, dextrose solution, etc.) that are nonhazardous in nature but may be 
classified as regulated in some countries. Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations, since patients dispose of 
unused product rather than returning it to Baxter for disposal.
21 Excludes waste recycled on-site, remediation waste, construction and demolition debris, and wastewater treatment sludge. Includes certain 
waste streams (such as waste oils, batteries, fluorescent lamps, light ballasts and asbestos) not classified as regulated in some locations. 
22 Water usage from Baxter’s 55 sites with the greatest use, representing 97% of the company’s total annual water consumption. 
The WRI water tool defines baseline water stress as the total annual water withdrawals (municipal, industrial and agricultural) 
expressed as a percent of the total annual available flow. Higher values indicate more competition among users. 
 Low—Less than 10% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.  
 Low-Med—Between 10 and 20% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
 Med-High—Between 20 and 40% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
 High—Between 40 and 80% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
 Extremely High—More than 80% of the water available to agricultural, domestic, and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
23 Estimated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways. Data do not include one facility that 
operates zero-discharge systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements. BOD5 refers to five-day biological oxygen demand; 
COD refers to chemical oxygen demand; TSS refers to total suspended solids. When actual performance data were not available, 
estimates are based on performance at similar facilities or on other measured performance indicators.
24 Of the $79,500 in environmental fines Baxter paid in 2018, $75,000 was associated with three Notices of Violation received in 2016. 
25 Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).
26 United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). Accounts payable data are 
sent to a third party, which categorizes spending. Other categories include disability-owned, service-disabled-veteran-owned, 
LGBT-owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone-certified businesses. HUBZone is a U.S. Small Business Administration program 
for small companies that operate and employ people in Historically Underutilized Business Zones. Spending with suppliers that 
qualify for more than one category may be included in the totals for each of the relevant categories.
27 Data was restated for 2019 due to error in emission factor to calculate rail emissions for Canada. Number includes Scope 3 emissions 
plus Scope 1 emissions for product transport. Some totals vary from sum of items in category, due to rounding.  
28Variations in Baxter’s annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief 
response, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and changes in product mix and marketing. We identify opportunities 
to donate and respond to community and humanitarian aid partner requests as appropriate. Value of products donated (provided at no 
cost) is provided by partners based on wholesale acquisition cost at the time of donation. This number may be greater or less than the 
value of Baxter products distributed during the year by our relief partners. See Innovation That Expands Access to Care.
29 Contributions to U.S.-based 501(c)(3) organizations for programs within and outside of the United States.BAXTER VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS
1 Baxter used the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
to calculate emissions data from fossil fuel use. We used country electricity emission factors published by the International 
Energy Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) E-Grid U.S. regional electricity emission factors to 
calculate GHG emissions related to electricity consumption.
2 Apex Companies LLC verified to a reasonable level Baxter’s 2018–2020 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Apex Companies 
LLC also verified to a limited level Baxter’s methodology for determining 2018–2020 Scope 3 GHG emissions.
3 Some data for 2018 and 2019 are updated from data reported in the Baxter 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report for accuracy 
and to reflect updated GHG emission factors. 
4 We used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition to determine GHG 
emissions associated with using biomass fuel, principally wood/wood waste, as a boiler fuel at two Baxter locations. These 
emissions were calculated as 145,000, 152,000 and 149,000 metric tons CO 2 in 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively. CO 2e 
emissions from CH 4 and N 2O components of biomass combustion are included in reported Scope 1 emissions.
5 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions associated with reported fuel usage by company-
managed sales and distribution fleet vehicles and other vehicles. We estimated fuel usage for international sales and 
distribution vehicles based on regional sales information.
6 Refrigerant emissions represent reported CFC, HCFC and HFC refrigerant losses by each Baxter location. We calculated 
associated GHG emissions using actual emission factors for each reported refrigerant. 
7 Includes the purchase of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable electricity (Belgium, Brazil, France, Germany, 
Ireland, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and United States). 
8 Estimated based on an environmentally extended input-output model from an independent third party and Baxter’s revenue and 
sector of operation. 
9 Estimated based on capital expenditures and an estimated emission factor per million dollars of capital expenditure from 
benchmarking with industry.
10 Estimated based on Baxter’s actual yearly energy usage by energy type and GHG emission factors for each energy type per GaBi 
life cycle assessment software.
11 Estimated based on shipment of products to our customers using the EcoTransIT World Software that is compliant with the 
GHG Protocol and the Global Logistics Emissions Council Framework. 
12 Estimated emissions for wastewater treatment by municipalities and off-site waste recycling and disposal based on Baxter’s 
waste generation by type, guidance provided by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (United States) and 
the U.S. EPA WARM model.
13 Estimated based on domestic and international air mileage, rental vehicle CO 2e emissions or mileage, and hotel room stays 
provided by Baxter’s global travel providers, and using emission factors from UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting, Greenhouse Gas Protocol Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions Calculation Tool, and Carbonfund.org 
Business Travel Calculator.
14 Estimated based on the number of Baxter employees by country and statistics on commuting time and transport mode split into 
public transport, passenger cars, taxi and motorcycle, and walking or bicycling. Emission factors for each mode were obtained 
from Defra. 
15 Emissions associated with upstream leased assets are included in Baxter’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
16 Estimated based on previous Baxter product LCAs as well as the company’s revenue by product type. Category 1 emissions 
were extrapolated to other categories depending on the product type.
17 Estimated based on an environmentally extended input-output model from an independent third party and revenue from 
Baxter’s contract services business. 
18 Estimated based on production quantities and global warming potential information for certain types of products. Emissions 
for certain other products estimated based on previous Baxter product LCAs as well as the company’s revenue by product type. 
Category 1 emissions were extrapolated to other categories depending on the product type.
19 Totals do not include CO 2 emissions from Baxter-owned wood-fired boilers. See endnote 4 above for detail.
BAXTER FACILITIES WITH ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001  
AND GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS  
1 As of December 31, 2020.      
2 Facilities transitioned to ISO 45001 from OHSAS 18001.
3 The building with green certification noted is one of several buildings at the designated location.
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD INDEX
1 Differences compared with data on FDA websites may be due to timeframe (the date Baxter takes an action may differ from 
the date FDA classifies that action), definition of "recall" (FDA data includes actions taken even if the product is not removed 
or corrected), and classification by product group vs. product code (FDA counts each impacted product code within a product 
family as a distinct recall).
2 This figure is lower than reported in 2019 due to a difference in the calculation methodology.APPENDIX:   Endnotes (continued)Baxter International Inc. 
One Baxter Parkway 
Deerfield, Illinois 60015-4625
USA
www.baxter.com
© Baxter International Inc., 2021. All rights reserved.
References in this report to Baxter are intended to refer collectively to Baxter International Inc. and its U.S.  
and international subsidiaries.
Baxter, Amia, Baxter Renal Care Services, Doxil, Evo IQ, Floseal, Kaguya, Multirate, Revaclear, Sharesource, 
Sigma Spectrum, Spectrum IQ, Theranova, Twin Bag and Viaflo are trademarks of Baxter International Inc.,  
or its subsidiaries. 
Contrafluran and Sensofluran are trademarks of ZeoSys GmbH.
Matrix-M is a trademark of Novavax, Inc. 
Any other trademarks, products or brand images appearing herein are the property of their respective owners. Cover Photo:   In 2020, Baxter supported Americares global  
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which provided 
critically needed protective gear, training and emotional 
support for frontline health workers worldwide. Americares 
COVID-19 response spanned 31 countries in 2020, including 
Perú, pictured here, where Americares provided mobile 
health services in close coordination with the Peruvian 
Ministry of Health, the United States Agency for International 
Development and local partners, including VIDA Perú. Baxter is a longtime supporter of 
Americares, a health-focused relief and development organization that saves lives and 
improves health for people affected by poverty or disaster.• 100 Best Corporate Citizens  
3BL Media
• Score: A-  
CDP Climate Change and CDP Water
• Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion  
(top 10% of all companies)  
Disability Equality Index 
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index
• FTSE4Good Index Series
• America's Best Employers for Diversity  
Forbes
• America's Best Employers for Women  
Forbes
• Corporate Equality Index for LGBTQ Equality  
(100% score)  
Human Rights Campaign Foundation 
• America's Most Just Companies  
JUST Capital
• America's Most Responsible Companies  
Newsweek
• Global Inclusion Index (in 11 countries:  
Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland,  
Italy, Japan, Mexico, Singapore, UK)  
Seramount
• 100 Best Companies  
Seramount  (formerly  Working Mother Media )
• Best Companies for Dads  
Seramount  (formerly  Working Mother Media )
• Top Companies for Executive Women  
Seramount  (formerly Working Mother Media 's 
National Association for Female Executives)
• Top 10% Inclusion Index Company  
Seramount Inclusion IndexRECOGNITION HIGHLIGHTS (AS OF JUNE 2021 )
RECOGNITION
Baxter is proud to be recognized by numerous 
organizations and publications globally. These 
examples of our recent accomplishments highlight 
Baxter as an employer of choice, as a company 
that works to nurture an inclusive and diverse 
workplace, and as a socially and environmentally 
responsible business.