Making a Meaningful 
Difference2021 CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY 
REPORT
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsAppendixChampion Our People 
and Communities
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report
  2Introduction
Contents
3  INTRODUCTION
3 From the Chairman, President and CEO
4 Company Profile
6 COVID-19: Saving and Sustaining Lives  
 During a Global Pandemic
7 Advancing Racial Justice
8  CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY   
 COMMITMENT
8 Performance Goals
9 ESG: Driving Business Value
10 Corporate Responsibility Governance  
 and Management
11 Stakeholder Engagement
11 Materiality
12 United Nations Sustainable  
 Development Goals
13  2030 CORPORATE    
 RESPONSIBILITY GOALS  
14 EMPOWER OUR PATIENTS
15 Reach More Underserved Kidney Patients
17 Continually Improve Manufacturing  
 Capabilities
19 PROTECT OUR PLANET
20 Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct  
 Operations by 2040
25 Implement Strategic Water  
 Management Plans
28 Advance Sustainable Procurement
30 Implement Strategic Materials and  
 Waste Management Plans
33 Environmental, Health, Safety and   
 Sustainability Governance and  
 Additional Disclosures35 CHAMPION OUR PEOPLE  
 AND COMMUNITIES  
36 Invest in Underserved Communities  
 Globally
39 Achieve Top Quartile Workplace  
 Safety Performance
41 Increase Representation of Women and  
 Ethnic Minorities in Leadership Roles
42 CROSS-CUTTING COMMITMENTS
43 Ethics and Compliance
45 Human Rights
46 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
51 Privacy and Data Protection
52 APPENDIX
52 About This Report
53 Materiality Assessment Findings
54 Baxter Data Summary
56 Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and  
 GHG Emissions
57 Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001,  
 ISO 45001, ISO 50001 and Green Building  
 Certifications
58 Independent Assurance Statement
59 Sustainability Accounting Standards  
 Board Index
61 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index  
63 EndnotesASSURANCE AND VERIFICATION 
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) verified 
Baxter’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse 
gas emissions. See verification statement. 
Apex also assured the following sections of the report. 
See the assurance statements in English and Spanish.
• Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations 
by 2040 
• Implement Strategic Water Management Plans 
• Advance Sustainable Procurement
• Implement Strategic Materials and Waste  
Management Plans 
• Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
Governance and Additional Disclosures
• Achieve Top Quartile Workplace Safety Performance
• Protecting Human Rights in Our Supply Chain 
subsection of Human Rights 
• Supplier Diversity subsection of Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion 
• Related material in the Appendix:  
Baxter Data Summary ; Baxter Value Chain Energy 
Usage and GHG Emissions ; and Baxter Facilities 
with ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 and Green 
Building Certifications  
Most of the financial data included in the   
Baxter Data Summary  are taken from the audited 
consolidated financial statements contained in the 
Baxter International Inc. 2021 Annual Report on  
Form 10-K . These financial statements are audited by 
Baxter’s independent registered public accounting firm, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report   2
Photo credit:  Operation SmileIntroduction
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report
  32030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
From the Chairman , 
President and CEO
In December 2021, Baxter’s ongoing transformation 
reached a new inflection point as we completed the 
largest acquisition in our company’s 90-year history. 
By adding the talent and capabilities of medical 
technology leader Hillrom, we are creating new 
opportunities to expand the reach of our combined 
portfolio across sites of care and global geographies, 
as well as sparking new potential to make a 
difference for patients and their clinicians through 
our rapidly growing connected care capabilities.
The strength of the Baxter–Hillrom combination is 
rooted in the values that our teams bring together, 
starting with our shared dedication to saving and 
sustaining lives and emphasis on responsible 
corporate citizenship. These twin commitments were 
much in evidence across Baxter throughout 2021, as 
the healthcare landscape continued to be dominated 
by the devastating impact of COVID-19.
Baxter’s medically essential products have placed us 
squarely on the front lines of this battle from the 
start. Our impact in this space was further amplified 
in 2021, as we partnered in the manufacture of 
multiple COVID-19 vaccines on a contract basis. The 
pandemic also remained a key focus of our philan -
thropic efforts, as Baxter and the Baxter International  
Foundation supported a range of institutions and 
communities in need. As ever, we honor the first 
responders, clinicians and others throughout the 
global healthcare ecosystem who give of their hearts 
and expertise in this continuing fight.In July 2021, Baxter launched our 2030 Corporate 
Responsibility Commitment and Goals, a decade-spanning  
framework to create lasting social, environmental and 
economic value across three critical pillars: Empower 
Our Patients, Protect Our Planet, and Champion Our 
People and Communities. Each has a set of clearly 
stated initiatives, financial support and governance 
measures to ensure progress and accountability. 
You can find many noteworthy highlights of our 2021 
efforts in the pages that follow. To spotlight just a few, 
Baxter:
• Invested approximately $9 million to implement 
nearly 200 energy conservation projects across our 
manufacturing sites globally. We estimate that 
these projects will save 33,800 megawatt hours of 
energ y and avoid 8,800 metric tons carbon dioxide 
equivalent of greenhouse gas emissions annually.
• Reduced our water use by 7.7% in water-stressed 
areas and reduced waste generation by 9%, 
compared with 2020 and indexed to revenue.
• Continued to advance ACT: Activating Change Today, 
our multidimensional effort to promote racial 
justice, by investing in scholarship, community 
engagement and healthcare equity programs, and 
the attraction and development of diverse talent.
• Assessed our ability to report using the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
framework. 
• Heightened our philanthropic investments in 
underserved communities to $52 million in  
total charitable giving by Baxter and the Baxter 
International Foundation.Thanks to the focus and determination of our 
colleagues globally, we continue to be cited routinely 
as a corporate responsibility leader. Among recent 
recognition, Baxter ranked in the Top 10 of 
Newsweek ’s 2021 list of America’s Most Responsible 
Companies. We are also proud to be included on the 
S&P Global’s Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 
(DJSI), including both DJSI World and DJSI North 
America, each year since their inception (1999 and 
2005, respectively).
As of this writing, the devastating war in Ukraine is 
having a tragic human cost; yet the compassion of 
Baxter employees is again evident in our unrelenting 
drive to make a difference when crisis strikes. Baxter 
is now engaged in a multitiered humanitarian 
response, including, to date, more than $3.5 million 
in product donations as well as nearly $1 million in 
direct financial aid—a cash total reflecting, in part, 
the incredible personal generosity of our employees 
as matched by the Baxter International Foundation.
Regardless of the challenges and uncertainties that 
inevitably lie ahead, the Baxter team is committed to 
doing business the right way and in line with our 
environmental, social and governance priorities.   
I salute our Baxter employees around the world, 
whose passion powers our performance as a 
responsible corporate citizen .
JOSÉ (JOE) E. ALMEIDA    |   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Introduction
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report
  42030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Company Profile
Every day, millions of patients, caregivers and health-
care providers rely on Baxter’s leading portfolio of 
diagnostic, critical care, kidney care, nutrition, hospital 
and surgical products used across patient homes, 
hospitals, physician offices and other sites of care. For 
90 years, we’ve been operating at the intersection 
where vital innovations that save and sustain lives meet 
the healthcare providers who make it happen. Our 
corporate responsibility commitment is fundamental 
to our ability to deliver on this mission as we grow our  
business sustainably and strive to meet the needs of  
all our stakeholders.
Baxter provides a broad portfolio of essential healthcare 
products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; 
sterile intravenous (IV) solutions; infusion systems and 
devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anes-
thetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; surgical 
hemostat and sealant products; advanced surgical 
equipment; smart bed systems; patient monitoring and 
diagnostic technologies; and respiratory health devices.
On Dec. 13, 2021, Baxter completed its acquisition of 
Hillrom, a global medical technology leader. Hillrom 
brings a highly complementary product portfolio and 
innovation pipeline that will enable Baxter to provide 
a broader array of medical products and services to 
patients and clinicians across the care continuum 
and around the world. Together, we have the ability to 
transform healthcare by helping to improve patient 
outcomes, enhancing workflow efficiency and enabling 
more cost-effective healthcare solutions.
Baxter’s combination with Hillrom unlocks the next 
phase of our transformation journey, presenting a new 
wave of potential to drive greater impact for patients, healthcare providers, employees, investors and other 
stakeholders we serve worldwide.
Baxter’s heritage and global reach provide a distinct 
perspective on the needs of patients and caregivers 
around the world. We have a longstanding commitment 
to research and development (R&D) and a rich history 
of medical firsts, from the first commercially manufac -
tured IV solutions to the first portable kidney dialysis 
machine, and many more. Each of our approximately 
60,000 employees1 is dedicated to ensuring that Baxter 
is there when and where patients need care—from 
hospitals and clinics to physician offices and homes,  
in rural areas and major cities around the world.
We will continue to transform healthcare by supporting 
opportunities that will cultivate the next generation of 
innovators, investing in the pursuit of new discoveries 
and research, and partnering with world-renowned  institutions to further our impact. We underpin this 
work with a commitment to conduct our business  
with integrity, attract and develop a more diverse and 
inclusive workforce, increase operational efficiency 
and innovate more sustainable products.
GLOBAL PRESENCE
Baxter (including Hillrom) touches the lives of more 
than 350 million people every year. As of Dec. 31, 2021, 
our products, technologies and therapies are available 
in more than 100 countries across the following 
geographic segments related to our legacy Baxter 
business: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA); Asia Pacific (APAC); and a new global segment 
for our recently acquired Hillrom business. Our 
corporate headquarters is located in Deerfield, Illinois, 
in the United States. R&D is conducted at centers 
around the the world, including facilities in Belgium, 
China, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Sweden and the 
United States. As of the end of 2021, our products are 
manufactured in approximately 50 facilities across 
more than 20 countries.Europe, 
Middle East 
and AfricaAmericas Asia Paciﬁc
$12.8B52% 22%Hillrom2%
24%REVENUE BY SEGMENT, 2021* REVENUE BY PRODUCT CATEGORY, 2021*
*Sales and related figures represent fiscal year 2021. Baxter’s full year 2021 
financial results include $212 million of Hillrom sales that occurred from the 
Dec. 13, 2021 acquisition date through Dec. 31, 2021.
COMPANY OVERVIEW, 2021
    * As of Dec. 31, 2021. 
  ** Approximately 10,000 of those employees joined Baxter in December 2021              
       as a result of our acquisition of Hillrom.
*** This amount does not include Hillrom charitable giving from 2021.*Sales and related figures represent fiscal year 2021. Baxter’s full year 2021 
financial results include $212 million of Hillrom sales that occurred from the 
Dec. 13, 2021 acquisition date through Dec. 31, 2021.100+Products available in
countries*~60,000
employees*,**
20+Manufacturing in
countries*$52 million
in charitable giving ***Renal Care$3.9B
Pharmaceuticals$2.3B
Advanced Surgery$1.0B
BioPharma Solutions$0.7B
Patient Support Systems$0.1B
Front Line Care$0.1B
Surgical Solutions<$0.1BAcute Therapies$0.8BMedication Delivery$2.9B
Clinical Nutrition$1.0B
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report   4Introduction
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report
  52030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
INNOVATION
Baxter and Hillrom are uniting to meet the challenges  of 
a rapidly-evolving healthcare landscape. Our products 
and services are essential building blocks of health -
care. We innovate to bring smarter, more personalized 
care to the world with new technologies and therapies 
for patients and providers. These efforts are bolstered 
by our partnerships with clinical experts and leaders 
in digital health and the broader healthcare industry 
who diversify our discovery process. 
We aspire to transform healthcare by helping providers 
improve care outcomes, enhance workflow efficiencies 
and enable more cost-effective healthcare solutions. 
With approximately 2 million "smart devices"2 globally,  
we are advancing new solutions across the care continu -
um, including device connectivity, data visualization and 
analytics tools, care communications, and monitoring 
and sensing innovations. Our goal is for our innovations 
to work together in a connected system that surrounds 
the patient and their care team.We are also transforming the way we operate by 
empowering our people to learn and innovate at 
scale using digital technology. Our goal is to help our 
people and our customers to reach their full potential 
by driving data, insights and deep partnerships to 
advance our mission of saving and sustaining lives. 
In 2021, our companywide digital transformation 
initiative led to new customer service and therapy 
support tools for patients and healthcare providers 
and new digital health solutions in clinical nutrition 
and home dialysis. We also deployed more than 
20 new digital solutions internally to support our 
operations, from manufacturing planning to quality 
tracking and beyond. 
Baxter’s robust product pipeline is designed to help 
clinicians be more efficient and effective as they treat 
patients across multiple care settings, including the 
hospital bedside, operating room and intensive care 
unit; dialysis clinic; physician’s office and at home. 
We expect to introduce several innovations to help 
improve care for patients around the world, including 
digital health solutions for the hospital and home, a 
new infusion pump platform, a new digital-ready  
ophthalmoscope and otoscope to transform physical  
examinations, new developments in home dialysis 
technology,  generic injectable drug offerings and more.  Our approach to corporate responsibility 
supports our company’s goals to achieve top 
quartile results relative to industry peers and 
other comparators across four dimensions:
Patient safety and Quality
Growth through innovation
Best place to work
Industry-leading performance
The content in the remainder of this report, 
including progress toward all of our 2030 
Corporate Responsibility Goals, refers 
to Baxter and does not include Hillrom, 
unless stated otherwise. Our Baxter 2022 
Corporate Responsibility Report will reflect 
the combined company.
Photo:  Baxter’s Sharesource remote patient management platform is the most widely adopted digital 
health platform for home dialysis globally. The platform allows healthcare professionals to remotely 
monitor and manage their home patients’ automated peritoneal dialysis treatments.Introduction
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report
  62030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
COVID-19:  Saving and Sustaining Lives  
During a Global Pandemic
The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic continues to create a worldwide crisis. As a global leader in healthcare, delivering on our mission to save and 
sustain lives is more vital than ever. We continue to protect the health and safety of our employees; increase the supply of critically necessary 
products and therapies; share our industry expertise, including partnering to manufacture COVID-19 vaccines; and provide philanthropic 
support to communities in need. Learn more. The rollout of COVID-19 
vaccines makes it possible 
to see light at the end of 
the tunnel. I’m filled with 
gratitude for every health 
professional and scientist 
behind this incredible global 
health effort. Vaccines are 
our best chance to protect 
each other and return to 
sharing our lives. ”
NEO, BUSINESS UNIT DIRECTOR FOR BAXTER RENAL CARE,  
ACUTE THERAPIES AND STRATEGIC INITIATIVES, HONG KONG
Our People
From our frontline employees in 
manufacturing to our clinical educators, 
service specialists and more, Baxter 
colleagues have played an extraordinary 
role in maintaining and increasing 
critical product supply to meet patient 
needs. Throughout the pandemic we 
have followed our staged response plan 
and continued to provide resources 
and ongoing communications to help 
employees understand the evolving 
science and provide up-to-date guidance 
in support of the health and safety of 
all Baxter team members, including 
the importance of getting the COVID-19 
vaccine. See Achieve Top Quartile 
Workplace Safety Performance and 
Inclusive Pay and Benefits.Our Communities
The Baxter International Foundation 
(the Foundation) is providing 
financial support to address the 
needs of patients, healthcare 
workers and communities. Since 
2020, the Foundation has provided 
more than $3 million in global 
COVID-19 grants, including grants to 
support Feeding America, Save the 
Children and World Vision. Our giving 
included a 2:1 employee gift match 
campaign for Save the Children, 
focused on COVID-19 relief. See 
Invest in Underserved Communities 
Globally .Our Products
We have boosted production to help 
address the elevated demand for our 
products around the world and made 
substantial investments to increase 
manufacturing capacity. We are 
partnering with vendors to procure 
additional raw materials to support 
increased production. To expedite 
shipping globally, we are leveraging 
distributor networks as well as 
shipping directly from our facilities. 
Additionally, we are working closely 
with governments globally to ensure 
ongoing manufacturing, and continuing 
our Manufacture-to-Donate program 
with humanitarian partners. See 
Baxter 2021 Public Policy and Political 
Contributions Report.Our Expertise
Our medical team is working with 
global healthcare professionals 
to understand the unique clinical 
challenges created by COVID-19. 
Additionally, Baxter’s BioPharma 
Solutions business is providing fill/
finish manufacturing services for 
the Novavax, BioNTech and Moderna 
COVID-19 vaccines. Baxter’s 
BioPharma Solutions represents 
one entity that is part of a group of 
contract manufacturing partners 
providing fill/finish services to the 
market for the COVID-19 vaccine.Introduction
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report
  72030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Advancing Racial Justice 
We are united by our mission to save and sustain lives, which rests on a strong foundation 
and commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) globally. Racism, intolerance, 
marginalization and discrimination affect our colleagues, families, friends and communities 
worldwide in countless forms. In 2020, we launched ACT: Activating Change Today, a global, 
multidimensional and multiyear initiative to advance racial justice. While this initiative was 
prompted by the murder of George Floyd in the United States, ACT is intended to address 
other racial/ethnic minority injustices around the world as well. In the United States, the 
focus of our ACT effort is on the Black community. Outside of the United States, our regional 
and country teams are working to address injustices that affect various races and ethnicities , 
throughout the EMEA and APAC regions. We expect to  continue expanding our efforts in 
other countries in 2022 and beyond.
As the name suggests, ACT is about taking action to drive results. We want to achieve 
meaningful, sustainable change and be part of the solution to the complex, longstanding, 
multifaceted societal issue of racial injustice. We are acting with a sense of urgency, 
prioritizing initiatives around the world that we believe will make the biggest impact. 
We have aligned our ACT initiatives to our four DE&I strategic pillars—workforce, workplace, 
communities and marketplace—to ensure we approach this issue in a comprehensive manner.  
Learn more about our most recent ACT:ions.This is a generational defining moment. I know that the conversations are 
tough… conversations of race, of social injustice, of systemic oppression. 
But we should have them anyway.”
NOSA, TERRITORY BUSINESS MANAGER, ADVANCED SURGERY
Employees heard from their colleague, Nosa, on his views and experiences with institutional and systemic racism in the United States. 
As part of our ACT initiative, Baxter is working to foster open, honest conversations. To hear from Nosa, click here.
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  8
Corporate Responsibility
Commitment2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility  
Commitment  
Baxter is committed to addressing the environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues touching our patients, employees and the 
diverse communities we serve worldwide.Our corporate responsibility work is grounded in three pillars and bolstered by our approach to good  
governance and cross-cutting commitments to responsible practices across our business. 
Our 2030 Corporate Responsibility Commitment features 10 goals for prioritized action.
We have reported our environmental performance for 30 years and have consistently broadened and enhanced  
our reporting on the ESG issues that are priorities to Baxter and our stakeholders. Baxter published its first 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index in 2020 (based on 2019 information), in alignment 
with the Medical Equipment and Supplies Sustainability Accounting Standard. In addition, in early 2022, 
we commissioned a third party to conduct a gap analysis comparing the information in our 2020 Corporate 
Responsibility Report and our 2021 CDP Climate Change disclosure with the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. We are actively evaluating our ability to report against the TCFD 
framework generally and in light of potential evolving regulatory disclosure requirements.
Performance Goals
Every year, we measure and evaluate our performance, communicate progress and challenges, and 
identify opportunities to drive even greater impact across our business and society. Setting goals across 
a broad range of ESG issues demonstrates our commitment, reinforces accountability and helps to drive 
ongoing improvement. This report states progress toward Baxter’s 2030 Corporate Responsibility Goals. 
We developed our 2030 goals through broad engagement with Baxter executives, our Board of Directors (Board) , 
subject matter experts across the company, investors, nongovernmental organizations and other external 
stakeholders. Industry and cross-industry benchmarking, as well as our most recent materiality assessment,  
also informed the process. Given the scale and scope of the challenges we face as a society, we chose a  
10-year timeframe for most of our goals to advance meaningful progress related to these substantive issues.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PILLARS 
Empower Our Patients
Protect Our Planet
Champion Our People 
and CommunitiesCROSS-CUTTING COMMITMENTS
Ethics and Compliance
Human Rights
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Privacy and Data Protection Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  9
Corporate Responsibility
Commitment2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
ESG: Driving Business Value
Our corporate responsibility approach focuses on delivering business value by addressing the ESG issues that matter most to our company and stakeholders, while also addressing the key risk 
factors that may impact the long-term sustainability of our business. Following is a representative sample of how driving progress in corporate responsibility contributes to business value.
BUSINESS VALUE DRIVER EXAMPLES
Employee Attraction  
and Retention• We follow a fair and inclusive hiring process, which includes an inclusive candidate sourcing strategy, diverse interview panels and a target to ensure that at least 30% of candidates on the interview 
slates for roles of manager or above are diverse.  
• Baxter conducts Best Place to Work surveys, through which our employees rate the company’s workplace across various categories. See summary data in the Baxter Data Summary as well as 
results related to workplace inclusion. 
• We believe that our commitment to sustainability, environmental stewardship, and safe and healthy workplaces helps us to attract, engage and retain top talent.  
Operational Efficiency    • In 2021, we implemented 196 energy conservation projects. We estimate these projects will save 33,800 megawatt hours of energy and $3.3 million and avoid 8,800 metric tons carbon dioxide 
equivalent of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions annually.1 See Energy Management.
• Recycling at Baxter generated $2.5 million in net income during the year. See Implement Strategic Materials and Waste Management Plans.
License to Operate  • We maintain global strategies and programs to help ensure that we meet privacy regulations such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation; human rights-related legislation such as the 
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010; and product materials restrictions such as the EU RoHS Directive, EU REACH Regulation and EU Medical Devices Regulation. This supports  
our continued access to key markets. See Materials of Concern, Protecting Human Rights in Our Supply Chain and Privacy and Data Protection. 
• We prioritize regulatory compliance as the foundation of our environmental, health, safety and sustainability (EHS&S) program. See Environmental, Health and Safety Performance. 
• Baxter supports communities in need where we have an operational presence through partnerships that address environmental, social and economic needs (such as water access, sanitation and 
hygiene or WASH  projects). See Implement Strategic Water Management Plans.   
Risk Reduction• We have strengthened our EHS&S governance to identify and mitigate environmental risks; implemented programs to enhance physical infrastructure at our manufacturing facilities; and made 
substantial capital investments at our critical sites to ensure their operational longevity. See Environmental, Health and Safety Performance. 
• We identify and manage climate- and water-related risks as part of our global risk management activities, have implemented a GHG emissions-reduction strategy as well as water management and 
waste mitigation plans and continue to build resiliency across our supply chain. See Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations by 2040, Implement Strategic Water Management Plans, and 
Implement Strategic Materials and Waste Management Plans.
• Product and process improvements are designed to enhance patient safety and product quality and decrease risk of regulatory actions. See Continually Improve Manufacturing Capabilities. 
• Cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities change rapidly, so we are committed to working with the security research community to verify and respond to legitimate vulnerabilities and partner to 
strengthen cybersecurity of medical devices. See Privacy and Data Protection. 
Governance• ESG matters are subject to oversight at the highest levels of Baxter, including our Executive Leadership Team (whose annual incentive compensation is tied, in part, to ESG metrics) and our Board  
of Directors (with two committees sharing oversight for ESG matters and the Board as a whole reviewing ESG matters at least annually). See Corporate Responsibility Governance and Management. 
• The diversity of our Board provides key insights related to corporate responsibility and strategic initiatives, operational performance and financial control. See Our Leadership.
• We manage environmental aspects and risks, as well as health and safety hazards and risks, in accordance with the most current International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 and  
ISO 45001 standards, and we provide oversight and assurance for our EHS&S programs through a structured audit process. See Environmental, Health and Safety Performance. 
Reputation• Maintaining high ethical standards, ensuring strong labor and environmental practices in our supply chain and working to support communities where we have an operational presence all  
contribute to our corporate responsibility goals and to our reputation as a leading corporate citizen. See Implement Strategic Water Management Plans, Advance Sustainable Procurement, 
Invest in Underserved Communities Globally , Ethics and Compliance, Human Rights, and Recognition.
Revenue• Innovation to enhance patient safety and product quality drives our ability to meet patient needs and ultimately improves health outcomes. See Continually Improve Manufacturing Capabilities.
• Customers increasingly consider environmental and social performance in proposal reviews and purchasing decisions. 
• Our efforts to expand access to care, particularly in the renal space for underserved markets, unlock new opportunities for revenue growth. See Reach More Underserved Kidney Patients.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  10
Corporate Responsibility
Commitment2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
ESG matters receive strategic guidance and oversight at the highest levels of the company, including Baxter’s 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Baxter’s Executive Leadership Team (formerly known as Senior Leader -
ship Team) and the Board. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OVERSIGHT
Baxter’s Board of Directors plays a critical role in corporate responsibility oversight. The full Board is regularly 
updated on corporate responsibility matters (including a discussion of related goals and industry trends). The 
Board’s Quality, Compliance and Technology (QCT) Committee and Nominating, Corporate Governance & Public 
Policy (NCGPP) Committee share oversight for ESG-related matters. The QCT Committee provides oversight 
for issues related to environmental sustainability and compliance, while the NCGPP Committee provides 
oversight for other aspects of corporate responsibility, including charitable contributions, public policy, access 
to healthcare and other social and governance issues. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STEERING 
COMMITTEE
With the inauguration of the company’s 2030 Corporate 
Responsibility Commitment and Goals, we launched 
an executive cross-functional Corporate Responsibility 
Steering Committee to provide direction and oversight 
to our ESG initiatives and set and advance our corporate 
responsibility strategy and culture. The Committee 
meets quarterly to monitor policies, action plans and 
strategies as well as other matters of significance to 
the company’s reputation as a socially responsible 
organization. It provides guidance to Baxter’s Corporate 
Responsibility Council.  
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COUNCIL
Baxter’s Corporate Responsibility Council is composed 
of executives and subject matter experts from across 
the company. The Council meets quarterly and provides 
oversight to ensure high standards of accountability. 
The Council’s role is to:
• Track progress toward our 2030 Corporate Respon-
sibility Commitment and Goals and deliver regular 
progress updates to the Corporate Responsibility 
Steering Committee, select members of Baxter’s  
Executive Leadership Team and our Board of Directors
• Solicit and review stakeholder input on Baxter’s  
corporate responsibility programs, priorities, goals 
and disclosure, as well as broader industry trends
• Oversee and assign day-to-day ESG matters to  
a combination of personnel and work groups from  
our corporate responsibility, EHS&S, human  
resources, finance, investor relations, legal,  
communications, procurement, engineering and 
other teams, depending on the nature of the matterSENIOR LEADER ACCOUNTABILITY
To drive further accountability, beginning in 2021, the 
individual performance assessment for our Senior 
Leadership Team (now our Executive Leadership 
Team) under our Annual Incentive Plan is determined 
in connection with an assessment of our performance 
against pre-established measures for strategic  
priorities, including those related to ESG. For example, 
these measures include: 
• Patient safety and quality, including product safety 
and quality systems
• Best place to work, including diversity in the 
workforce, culture, talent, Baxter’s ACT: Activating 
Change Today initiative to fight racial injustice, and 
environmental, health and safety measures
• Growth through innovation, including our ongoing 
digital transformation and innovative ecosystem
Learn more. 
Corporate Governance Resources
Visit Baxter’s Our Governance webpage for 
information and links related to: 
 `Corporate Governance Guidelines
 `Board of Directors, Committees and 
Committee Charters
 `Code of Conduct
 `Securities Trading Policy
 `Ethics and Compliance Helpline
Our Ethics and Compliance webpage includes 
links to additional standards and policies for 
our employees and suppliers that help us drive 
a culture of integrity and ethical behavior.GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BAXTER*
*As of March, 2022.Corporate Responsibility  
Governance and Management
Chairman and CEO
Corporate Responsibility Steering CommitteeBoard of Directors 
 Quality, Compliance and Technology Committee            Nominating, Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee
Corporate Responsibility Council Co-Chairs
VP, Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability            Senior Director, Global Community Relations
Corporate Responsibility Council Members
Corporate Responsibility Working GroupSVP, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller
SVP, Human Resources
VP, Finance, Financial Planning and Analysis VP, Global AuditSVP, Chief Quality Officer VP, Investor RelationsSVP, Global Communications SVP, Chief Supply Chain Officer
General Manager, Medication 
Delivery and Acute TherapiesPresident,
Renal CareChief Procurement 
Officer
VP, Global Engineering and 
Manufacturing Strategy VP, Global 
Patient SafetyVP, HR—Americas, 
GBUs, and Global FunctionsDeputy General Counsel and 
Chief Compliance Officer
VP, National and  
Strategic AccountsSenior Director, 
Product Quality EVP and Chief Operating Officer  EVP and Chief Financial Officer SVP and General Counsel SVP and Corporate SecretaryBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  11
Corporate Responsibility
Commitment2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Stakeholder Engagement
Baxter collaborates with a broad range of stakeholders to inform our 2030 Corporate Responsibility  
Commitment and Goals. We routinely engage with our primary stakeholder groups to assess the ESG issues 
that are most relevant to our business. We also periodically conduct in-depth materiality assessments to 
better understand the relative importance of a broad range of ESG issues to our business and stakeholders.
Stockholder Outreach
As part of the company’s corporate governance outreach program, members of Baxter’s management team 
and members of the Board, including the company’s Lead Independent Director, engage with investors on 
a range of topics. In the fall of 2021, the company engaged in discussions with stockholders representing 
approximately 30% of the company’s outstanding shares (calculated as of Dec. 31, 2021). 
Topics discussed with stockholders in 2021 included company strategy and performance (including the 
company’s response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic), the proposed Hillrom acquisition (which was 
completed on Dec. 13, 2021), corporate governance matters (including Board composition, diversity 
and refreshment and proposed changes to the company’s Certificate of Incorporation to adopt written 
consent), the Board’s leadership structure, executive compensation and corporate responsibility initiatives 
(including the company’s 2030 Corporate Responsibility Goals). Stockholder feedback was shared with the 
full Board and relevant committees.Materiality
To understand and prioritize issues that are critical to the long-term sustainability of our business and most 
relevant to our stakeholders, we periodically conduct materiality assessments. These analyses (which may differ 
from those conducted for financial statement or other disclosure purposes) inform our corporate responsibility 
strategy, commitment and goals. See a list of our material corporate responsibility issues (as defined during our 
2018 assessment) and their impacts across our value chain. For more information about the process we undertook  
and the key findings of that assessment, see page 6 of our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report. 
As a result of the Hillrom acquisition, Baxter plans to undertake a materiality assessment in 2022 to help  
ensure the company’s corporate responsibility focus continues to align with the interests of the company and  
its stakeholders. We will include the results of this analysis in our next corporate responsibility report.BAXTER’S PRIMARY STAKEHOLDER GROUPS
Payers Regulators/
policymakersSuppliers PatientsCommunities Customers Employees Healthcare 
providersInvestors
NGOsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  12
Corporate Responsibility
Commitment2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
We are proud to affirm our support for the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and 2030 Agenda—a global blueprint for achieving a more sustainable future. 
While our business and corporate responsibility initiatives align with many of the UN SDGs, we focus especially on the goals highlighted below. 
As a global healthcare company, advancing health and 
well-being is central to our business.    
• To address the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to protect our 
employees, increase the supply of critically necessary products 
and therapies, share our industry expertise and provide 
philanthropic support to communities in need. See COVID-19:  
Saving and Sustaining Lives During a Global Pandemic. 
• Through Baxter’s product donations, we work to address unmet 
healthcare needs and improve health outcomes in underserved 
communities. See Product Donations. 
• Through our Signature Partnerships, the Baxter International 
Foundation supports programs that increase access to 
healthcare. See Invest in Underserved Communities Globally . 
• Through a broad range of programs and activities, we are laying 
the foundation to increase access to peritoneal dialysis (PD) 
in developing countries. See Reach More Underserved Kidney 
Patients. 
• Through our ACT Initiative, Baxter launched a kidney care 
program to increase awareness and education in Black 
communities about kidney health and managing chronic kidney 
disease. Learn more. We take a broad approach to addressing water-related  
issues in Baxter’s operations and the communities where  
we operate.   
• We work to better understand the impacts of water use across 
our business and implement conservation and efficiency projects 
at our manufacturing facilities. See Implement Strategic Water 
Management Plans. 
• Using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk 
Atlas version 3.0, we map and analyze current and future risks 
associated with water stress at our most significant water-use 
locations . See Water Management. 
• We take a proactive approach to wastewater operations and 
how we identify, evaluate and manage wastewater issues. See 
Wastewater . 
• In 2021, we continued our work to provide communities in 
Guatemala and India with access to clean water and launched a 
program in Colombia. See Supporting Access to Clean Water .  Materials use is a key driver of Baxter’s environmental footprint  
and getting the most value possible from materials is central to  
our approach.   
• Through sustainable design, we minimize our environmental impacts and  
capture as much value as possible from the natural resources used to 
manufacture, transport, use and recover our products. See Sustainable Design. 
• Baxter’s corporate responsibility approach prioritizes compliance with 
product chemical and medical device regulations. See Materials of Concern. 
• We work to reduce materials use in products without affecting efficacy, and  
to avoid or minimize materials of concern. See Materials Use in Products  
and Packaging .
• Baxter reduces the amount of materials used in packaging and substitutes 
with environmentally preferable alternatives when possible. See Packaging .  
• We work to reduce nonhazardous and regulated waste and to increase 
recycling at our manufacturing and office facilities. See Implement Strategic 
Materials and Waste Management Plans.  
• Baxter aims to conserve natural resources and reduce waste during 
product distribution. See Product Distribution.  
• We work with customers, industry peers and recycling and disposal 
vendors to facilitate the recycling and responsible treatment of medical 
products. See Product End-of-Life. 
ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND 
PROMOTE WELL-BEING FOR ALL 
AT ALL AGES
ENSURE AVAILABILITY AND 
SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF 
WATER AND SANITATION FOR ALLENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION 
AND PRODUCTION PATTERNSBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  13
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Our 2030 Corporate Responsibility Goals support Baxter's top quartile goals, which include:Patient safety 
and QualityBest place 
to workGrowth through 
innovationIndustry-leading 
performancePILLARS GOALS PERFORMANCE
EMPOWER  
OUR PATIENTSReach More Underserved  
Kidney PatientsDouble the number of patients reached in underserved markets* through our 
peritoneal dialysis (PD) portfolio.
*Countries outside of the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Korea, Australia and New Zealand. 
(Baseline: 198,000 patients in 2020)  In 2021, we reached more than 204,000 patients in underserved markets through our PD portfolio. Given the 
number of barriers to care in these markets, we are taking a staged approach—beginning with awareness  
and education—that we intend to accelerate in future years. 
Continually Improve  
Manufacturing CapabilitiesAchieve a 10% year-over-year improvement in manufacturing process capability 
for prioritized products.*
*As measured by the year-over-year decrease in defect rate until each product’s process capability goal is met.  
(Baseline year: 2021)  In 2021, we gathered data to establish a capability baseline for our sterilized solutions and sets, and refined 
the infrastructure and processes necessary to enhance product quality and report progress. In future reports, 
we will disclose progress from this baseline toward our target.
PROTECT  
OUR PLANETAchieve Carbon Neutrality  
for Direct Operations by 2040Achieve carbon neutrality for our direct operations by 2040 and reduce absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 25% by 2030, aligned with a well-below  
2⁰ Celsius science-based target. In 2021, we reduced absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 0.4% compared with 2020.  
We also established the necessary teams and infrastructure to help accelerate progress in the coming years. 
Implement Strategic  
Water Management PlansImplement strategic water management plans at prioritized manufacturing locations. *
*Identify prioritized locations using a risk-based approach by the end of 2023.In 2021, we collected data from all of our manufacturing sites, which we will use as we work toward our 2023 
milestone of prioritizing locations for water management. We also continued upgrading our manufacturing 
infrastructure and modernizing our operations to improve efficiency and reduce operational risk moving forward. 
Advance Sustainable  
ProcurementIntegrate Baxter’s sustainable procurement strategy across 90% of our supplier spend. *
*As measured by supplier commitment to Baxter’s Ethics & Compliance Standards and Baxter’s completion  
of corporate responsibility audits within our supply base.In 2021, we laid the foundation to calculate progress toward this goal in the coming years. We also committed 
to increase investments in staff and training and continued to enhance our internal audit capabilities.
Implement Strategic Materials 
and Waste Management PlansImplement prioritized waste mitigation opportunities* in Baxter’s integrated  
supply chain, from procurement to distribution.
*Identify prioritized waste generation sources by the end of 2024.In 2021, we continued to mitigate waste at Baxter through process efficiency, waste reduction, recovery, 
recycling and landfill diversion. We also further engaged stakeholders to identify additional opportunities for 
reduction and  to inform our strategy and facilitate prioritization of waste generation sources by 2024.
CHAMPION OUR  
PEOPLE AND  
COMMUNITIESInvest in Underserved  
Communities GloballyInvest $275 million in underserved communities through strategic partnerships 
and product donations from Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation.In 2021, Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation invested nearly $52 million in underserved communities  
through strategic partnerships, grants and product donations.
Achieve Top Quartile Workplace 
Safety PerformanceAchieve top quartile workplace safety performance annually in total recordable 
incident rate.*
*Among global companies across industries as reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.Baxter’s total recordable incident rate in 2021 ranked in the top quartile, achieving our goal for the year.**
**Compared with 2019 data, which was the most recent data available from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics at the time our  
2030 Corporate Responsibility Goal was established.
Increase Representation  
of Women and Ethnic  
Minorities in Leadership RolesThrough hiring, promotion and retention, aspire to increase representation of 
women in leadership roles globally to 40%.*
*Assuming labor market conditions continue to support the goal. Leadership role is defined as director and above.As of Dec. 31, 2021, 36% of people in leadership roles at Baxter globally were women, up from 34% in 2020.
Through hiring, promotion and retention, aspire to increase representation of 
ethnic minorities in leadership roles in the United States to 25%.* 
*Assuming labor market conditions continue to support the goal. Leadership role is defined as director and above.As of Dec. 31, 2021, 24% of people in leadership roles at Baxter in the United States were ethnic minorities,  
up from 22% in 2020.2030 Corporate Responsibility Goals  
The baseline for these goals is 2020 and the target achievement year is 2030, unless stated otherwise. Performance statements refer to Baxter and do not include Hillrom.  Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  14Empower  
Our Patients
Protect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Reach More Underserved  
Kidney Patients ...............1 5
Continually Improve  
Manufacturing Capabilities.....1 7
Empower
Our 
PatientsInvest in innovative 
initiatives, products and 
therapies that tackle 
barriers to safe and 
quality healthcareEmpower  
Our Patients
Protect  
Our Planet
AppendixChampion Our People 
and Communities
Corporate Responsibility
Commitment
Introduction
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility Goals
Cross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  15Empower  
Our Patients
Protect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Reach More Underserved Kidney Patients   
2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Double the number of patients reached in 
underserved markets* through our peritoneal dialysis (PD) portfolio.  
*Countries outside of the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Korea, Australia and New Zealand. (Baseline: 198,000 patients in 2020)PERFORMANCE:   In 2021, we reached more than 204,000 patients in underserved  
markets through our PD portfolio. Given the number of barriers to care in these 
markets, we are taking a staged approach—beginning with awareness and 
education—that we intend to accelerate in future years.  
APPROACH AND PROGRESS
Increasing access to Baxter’s lifesaving products for 
patients and caregivers globally is one of our company’s  
top priorities. Our 2030 goal to reach more kidney patients 
in developing countries emphasizes the importance of 
supporting this underserved population. People in developing countries are at a higher 
risk of developing kidney disease and have less 
opportunity to access the life-sustaining therapy 
needed to survive the disease. Though estimations 
vary, it is believed that up to nearly 10 million people 
worldwide require renal therapy, yet fewer than 
3 million people receive treatment.1 Home-based  
PD offers patients the opportunity to manage their 
therapy at home, provides equal or better outcomes 
for many and is often less costly when compared 
with clinic-based hemodialysis. PD also provides 
patients, who have immune dysfunction,  an 
opportunity to socially distance themselves to reduce 
the risk of viral infections, such as COVID-19.
In 2021, we focused on the following programs 
and activities as we began laying the foundation to 
increase access to PD in developing countries. Hosted second
International Home Dialysis 
Roundtable Sponsored hands-on PD catheter  
training for nearly  400  nephrologists 
from  19 countries             50,000+  patients in 70  
countries connected to their clinicians 
via Sharesource  
APPROACH TO REACHING RENAL PATIENTS IN  
UNDERSERVED MARKETS
We are taking a three-pronged approach to reach our 2030 goal.
Empower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Driving Shared Decision Making
Choosing an appropriate therapy option is an 
important decision for people with chronic 
kidney disease. Patients must be aware of and 
informed about their options so they can 
advocate for the treatment choice that is best 
for them. Engagement between trusted and 
informed clinicians and patients is critical to 
increasing patients’ awareness of treatment 
options and accelerating the adoption of PD. In 
2021, Baxter launched a campaign to raise 
clinician and patient awareness about the 
benefits of PD so they can have more informed 
discussions about therapy options. Driving Shared Decision Making
Advocating for Access to PD 
Expanding Innovation and ServicesBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  16Empower  
Our Patients
Protect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Our global Safer at Home awareness campaign 
educated patients and key stakeholders about home 
dialysis as an important therapy option during the 
COVID-19 pandemic and discouraged patients from 
delaying or opting out of therapy for fear of contracting 
the virus. In 2021, we continued to use social media 
channels to drive awareness globally and sponsor 
patient societies in delivering educational campaigns 
to their members and the general public. 
We also launched the MyKidneyJourney website, 
which was available in 28 countries as of the end of 
2021, including many developing countries. This locally 
customizable website provides objective pre-dialysis 
education for patients and caregivers who are seeking 
additional disease and therapy information. Although 
clinicians can direct patients to the site, it does not 
require clinician referral, making it easy to access for 
patients and family members. In addition, we established our PD Ambassador 
Program in 2021. Through this program, we invited 
local opinion leaders to learn more about the current 
clinical benefits of PD, the role they play in shared 
decision making and patient choice, the importance   
of home dialysis during the COVID-19 pandemic and 
beyond, and digital health with the Sharesource  
remote patient management platform as a home  
therapy enabler. By the end of the year, we had 
established a group of 50 PD Ambassadors from  
30 countries2 who can consistently communicate  
the benefits of PD and advocate for its use. 
Advocating for Access to PD
We support public policies, economic analyses and 
collaborations that advance access to PD. In 2021, 
we hosted a second International Home Dialysis 
Roundtable to continue work that this same group 
began in 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This group continues collaborating to identify and help 
address the global challenges and opportunities 
related to access to home dialysis. These annual 
discussions are unique in that they represent a broad, 
multinational gathering of patient advocacy groups, 
clinical societies and industry representatives from 27 
countries, including developing countries in Asia 
Pacific, Europe and other regions. 
While the roundtable was originally created to confront 
access-to-care challenges presented by the COVID-19 
pandemic, the forum also identified the benefit of  
prioritizing and addressing—either individually or in 
collaboration—systemic challenges to home dialysis  
on an ongoing basis. This group was responsible for an   
important call to action, published in Kidney Medicine , 
and several advocacy outreach communications to  
policymakers throughout the year. 
Expanding Innovation and Services
Innovation that meets the local needs of patients is 
critical to expanding access to care. With the proper 
awareness and education, we are working to expand 
access to our PD portfolio, including our digital health 
platform, in developing countries. 
For example, Sharesource remote patient management,  
our digital health platform, allows healthcare profession -
als to securely view data from their patients’ recently 
completed home dialysis treatment, which is automati-
cally collected after each automated peritoneal dialysis 
(APD) session. With real-time access to treatment data 
through Sharesource, healthcare professionals can 
remotely adjust patients’ home device settings without 
requiring additional trips to the clinic. Sharesource  leads 
to other therapeutic benefits, including fewer dropouts, 
improved adherence, and improved patient-reported 
outcomes, as well as cost reduction. More than 50,000 Awareness and Training for PD Catheters
In order to begin PD therapy, a patient must have a catheter inserted into their abdominal area. Completing 
this critical first step in a timely manner is a common barrier to PD therapy adoption and was especially 
challenging during the height of the pandemic when several countries deemed PD catheter insertion to be 
elective and suspended the procedure along with other elective surgeries. To support access to life-saving 
PD therapy, Baxter worked with healthcare professionals, medical societies and ministries of health globally 
to have catheter insertion procedures deemed an essential, non-deferable procedure, removing one barrier 
to patients beginning PD therapy. 
In 2021, we launched an educational campaign directed at nephrologists interested in placing catheters. 
The campaign included webinars, instructional videos, e-learning modules and interactive aids to raise 
awareness and encourage nephrologists to add PD catheter insertion to their practices. We also sponsored 
hands-on PD catheter training programs that trained nearly 400 nephrologists from 19 countries, including 
Algeria, Bahrain, Brazil, China, Colombia, Egypt, Ireland, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Morocco, Oman, Poland, 
Slovenia, South Africa, Sudan, Tunisia, Turkey and UAE. patients in 70 countries are connected to their clinicians 
via Sharesource. This platform and other innovations 
will continue to drive progress in this area. Visit our  
website for patient stories.
MOVING FORWARD  >>
Increasing the number of patients we reach in any  
market is complex and multifaceted. For example, the 
COVID-19 pandemic continues to present significant 
challenges for patients with kidney disease, and we will 
continue to advocate for access to care in the home to 
reduce potential risks associated with kidney patients 
contracting the virus. 
We expect incremental growth toward achievement of 
our goal during the next few years as we continue to drive 
shared decision making and advocate for safe, effective 
home-based dialysis through a focus on awareness and 
education. We anticipate this multifaceted approach will 
eliminate barriers to care and accelerate our ability to 
reach patients over time. We will continue to prioritize 
flexibility and agility as we drive progress toward our 
long-term plans.
Photo:  The Sharesource remote patient management platform is available with our 
APD systems globally.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  17Empower  
Our Patients
Protect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Continually Improve Manufacturing Capabilities   
2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Achieve a 10% year-over-year 
improvement in manufacturing process capability for prioritized products. * 
*As measured by the year-over-year decrease in defect rate until each product’s process capability goal is met. (Baseline year: 2021)PERFORMANCE:   In 2021, we gathered data to establish a capability baseline for our 
sterilized solutions and sets, and refined the infrastructure and processes necessary to 
enhance product quality and report progress. In future reports, we will disclose progress 
from this baseline toward our target. 
Production Cycle  
Optimization
process implemented  70%+ 
of Baxter manufacturing sites will benefit from  
process improvements for sterilized solutions 
APPROACH AND PROGRESS
Baxter develops products that save and sustain 
lives worldwide, delivering on our mission and 
representing our most important contribution 
to society. As we work to keep this promise to 
patients, caregivers and customers, we look 
beyond compliance and take proactive steps 
to enable more consistent, effective manufac -
turing processes. Our aim is to deliver safe, 
high-quality products that work reliably and are 
free of defects. Prioritizing quality and safety 
also helps to drive down customer complaints 
and product recalls while improving supply 
chain continuity and resilience. In 2021, we identified sterilized solutions and sets as a 
priority area for improvement. We are investing in man -
ufacturing processes that help us drive down the rate of 
leaks in these sterile products across our plants. More 
than 70% of our manufacturing sites produce sterilized 
solutions and sets and will benefit from these process 
improvements. As we make progress in this priority 
area, we will identify additional products for process 
improvements to prioritize in the coming years. 
Collaboration within our company and with regulators 
helps ensure quality across the product life cycle. Our 
multifaceted approach includes several key strategies.
Manufacturing standards: As we maintain and improve 
quality standards across our manufacturing sites, we 
focus on three primary areas: the physical facilities, 
critical systems used in product manufacturing and 
mechanisms to ensure a continual state of control.  By improving our process controls to address potential 
issues upstream, we can optimize our production lines 
and equipment effectiveness, minimize scrap and 
rework, and consistently release high-quality products 
into the marketplace.
Internal reviews: We employ multifunctional   
governing and operating mechanisms that aid us in 
performing in-depth technical evaluations, identifying 
necessary improvements to individual products and 
implementing those improvements worldwide. Our 
robust strategic reviews provide our cross-functional 
leadership with improved visibility and a greater   
understanding of product safety and quality perfor -
mance across the entire portfolio. These product 
reviews will provide important feedback to help us 
identify priority products for manufacturing process 
improvements as we work toward our goal.Patient Safety and 
Product QualityFacility Quality 
and Control
Quality Systems
PerformanceWe take a holistic, innovative approach to quality across the product 
life cycle, and our commitment to continuous improvement builds  
on decades of insight and expertise.INTEGRATED APPROACH TO QUALITYEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  18Empower  
Our Patients
Protect  
Our PlanetAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Digital transformation: Baxter is rethinking how the 
medical products industry approaches product 
release and control across the value chain. We have 
implemented a Production Cycle Optimization (PCO) 
process that leverages digital tools, robust data sets 
and strict controls across our manufacturing pro -
cesses to help ensure we are producing safe, 
high-quality products. Our aim is to detect quality 
defects early in the manufacturing process and fix 
those problems at their point of origin, which then 
has a positive impact across our manufacturing 
processes. 
Checking quality throughout production and using 
data-based decision making to improve our processes 
gives us confidence that we are consistently releasing 
high-quality products into the marketplace. In addition, 
because we collect evidence of quality throughout 
production, we were able to qualify products from 
two additional sites for parametric release in 2021. 
Parametric release allows us to release and distribute 
these products more efficiently by removing the need 
for additional testing at the end of the manufacturing 
process. Building on this success, we will be enrolling 
more sites in the future.  
In 2021, we created a system that enables us to con -
sistently capture and connect data across our manu -
facturing sites, replacing time-intensive manual tasks 
with automated workflows. This tool is configured to 
gather data from each site, which is then aggregated 
into a single, global, cloud-based solution that helps 
us track critical steps in our PCO processes as we 
work toward the parametric release of products.
Collaboration with global regulators: Through our 
strategic engagement with global regulatory bodies,  
we continue to pursue collaborative solutions to  advance patient safety and help ensure our products 
are of the highest quality and present the lowest  
possible risk to patients. 
For example, using the data-backed evidence we have 
gathered through our manufacturing controls and 
quality processes, we are working with regulators so 
that the guidance for required inspections is relevant 
for our products and the broader industry. Through this 
collaboration we are working to positively influence 
regulatory standards, such as FDA Guidance for 
“Inspection of Injectable Products for Visible Particu -
lates.” We will continue to work collaboratively with 
regulatory agencies around the world with the interest 
of ensuring that regulatory expectations support the 
manufacturing of safe, high-quality products for 
customers.
For more information about product safety and quality, 
see our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  
(SASB) index  and the Baxter Data Summary . 
MOVING FORWARD  >>
Building on the digital system we established in 2021 
to capture and connect data across our manufacturing 
sites, we are identifying and prioritizing opportunities 
to implement enhanced controls through our PCO 
process as we strive to improve our manufacturing 
process capabilities. The combination of better data 
and improved manufacturing capability will also help 
us collaborate with global regulators to implement 
more efficient release techniques, such as the para -
metric release of our solution products. 
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  19Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Achieve Carbon Neutrality for  
Direct Operations by 2040  .........2 0
Implement Strategic Water  
Management Plans...............2 5
Advance Sustainable  
Procurement ....................2 8
Implement Strategic Materials  
and Waste Management Plans  .....3 0
Environmental, Health, Safety  
and Sustainability Governance  
and Additional Disclosures ........3 3
Protect
Our
PlanetPrioritize operational 
excellence and 
environmental stewardship  
across our value chain
Photo:  Several 
employees in 
Colombia participate 
in forest protection 
and conservation 
volunteering.
Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
Commitment
Introduction
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility Goals
Empower  
Our Patients
Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix
Champion Our People 
and CommunitiesBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  20Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations by 2040  
2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Achieve carbon neutrality for our direct 
operations by 2040 and reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 25% by 
2030, aligned with a well-below 2⁰ Celsius science-based target.  (Baseline is 2020.)PERFORMANCE:   In 2021, we reduced absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions by 0.4% compared with 2020. We also established the necessary teams and 
infrastructure to help accelerate progress in the coming years. 
5.3% 
decrease in product  
transport GHG emissions*
APPROACH AND PROGRESS  
The effects of climate change are complex and wide-
ranging. Severe storms, droughts, forest fires and 
other climate-related impacts take a significant toll 
on human health, ecosystems, communities and 
businesses. Urgency is increasing both for collective, 
global action and a continued corporate response. 
Baxter’s goal to achieve carbon neutrality for our 
direct operations by 2040 demonstrates our broader 
commitment to conserve resources and limit our 
impact on the environment. 
As part of our global risk management activities, Baxter  
identifies, manages and mitigates the company’s 
climate-related risks by building resilience across 
our supply chain. We have strengthened and 
expanded our manufacturing supply network by 
diversifying manufacturing, identifying secondary 
suppliers, enhancing business continuity planning and implementing alternative energy projects. For more 
information about our governance, strategy and risk 
management, see Corporate Responsibility Governance 
and Management, our response to CDP Climate Change 
and our Climate Change & Energy Position Statement.
In 2021, we established a cross-functional team and 
strengthened the governance and infrastructure 
needed to make progress on our carbon neutrality 
commitment. We also continued our work to reduce 
energy consumption and GHG emissions across our 
company. Although Scope 3 emissions are currently 
outside the boundaries of our carbon neutrality goal, 
we will continue to report on our efforts to minimize 
these emissions.  
In addition to the performance data included throughout 
this section, see the Baxter Data Summary  and    
Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions  for more 
detail. For information about environmental, health, 
safety and sustainability (EHS&S) governance at Baxter, 
see Environmental, Health and Safety Performance.Relevant Policies and Standards
 `Climate Change & Energy Position 
Statement
 `Greenhouse Gas Protocol  
(Baxter contributed to the development  
of the initial version of the Protocol)*Compared with 2020.   **Estimated, based on 196 energy conservation projects implemented in 2021.
Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance 
on the content in this section.
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report   203.1%
reduction in energy use 
indexed to revenue *
7.4% 
reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions indexed to 
revenue*
8,800 
metric tons CO2e of GHG emissions   
to be avoided annually due to  
energy conservation projects **
Protect  
Our PlanetCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  21Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
• Team and financial resources established†
• Project trackers, data management, dashboards and progress 
reporting to CEO and Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee††
• Re-calculation of baseline to include legacy Hillrom†††
• Enhanced risk assessment††† 
• Evaluation of our ability to report against the TCFD framework††
• New disclosures for proposed U.S. SEC rules and EU requirements††† 
• Scope 3 methodology update†††  
• Energy efficiency program and acceleration of project pipeline 
(Scope 1 and 2)†† 
• On-site renewable energy projects††
• Cogeneration projects††
• Renewable energy certificates††
• First power purchase agreements††
• Increase in percent of renewable electricity††
• CONTRAfluran Anesthetic Gas Capture system pilots††
• Alternative fuel/energy pilots in product transport††
• Operational efficiencies and modal shift in product transport†† 
• Partnerships with key suppliers on GHG strategy to 
develop KPIs and embed in supplier management processes†††• Potential expanded use of CONTRAfluran Anesthetic
Gas Capture system
• Increased scale of alternative fuel/energy in product 
transport
 • Potential further expanded use of CONTRAfluran Anesthetic 
Gas Capture system• More energy efficiency projects (Scope 1 and 2) 
• Additional on-site renewable energy projects
• Additional cogeneration projects
• More renewable energy certificates
• Additional power purchase agreements
• Further increase percent of renewable electricity• Continue all electricity initiatives• Energy efficiency program and acceleration of project pipeline 
(Scope 1 and 2)††
• Fuel switching, including biomass††
• Heat decarbonization such as heat pumps††
• Refrigerant loss and substitution program†† 
• Investigation of alternative processes for steam††• More energy efficiency projects (Scope 1 and 2) 
• More fuel switching projects 
• More heat decarbonization projects
• Alternative processes for steam pilots• Continue all energy initiatives 
• Offsets for residual emissions• Continued reporting according to frameworks
• Climate resilience action plans 
• Roadmap evolution • Further advance climate action governance and strategy
Scope 1
Direct GHG emissions from 
sources we own or control 
including fuel combustionGovernance 
and Data
Scope 2
Indirect GHG emissions 
from purchased electricity
and steam
Scope 3
Indirect GHG emissions 
from our value chain2025 2030 2040GOAL: Achieve carbon neutralit y 
for our direct operations (Scope 
1 and 2 GHG emissions) by 2040GOAL: Reduce absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 25% by 2030
2020BaselineOur History
1997   Began reporting GHG emissions
2003   B egan reporting to CDP 
2015   Achieved 19% reduction in absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
(from a 2005 baseline)
2020   Achieved 13.6% reduction in absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
(from a 2015 baseline)
2021   Announced next generation of climate goalsBaxter Climate Action Roadmap 
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report   21 This graphic represents Baxter’s plans as of June 2022. These plans might change over time. For activities summarized in the 2020–2025 time frame, we have indicated which are completed, in progress or planned.            †  Complete     † †  In Progress     †††  PlannedBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  22Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) from Baxter 
Operations
In 2021, Baxter’s total Scope 1 and 2 emissions1  
from operations equaled 598,000 metric tons carbon 
dioxide equivalent. This is a 0.4% decrease in absolute 
emissions compared with 2020 and a 7.4% decrease 
indexed to revenue. 
Reducing energy use is vital to our sustainability 
strategy, as energy use accounted for 99% of Baxter’s 
GHG emissions from operations in 2021. During the 
year, in addition to energy-efficiency initiatives, we 
decreased our GHG emissions through fuel switching, 
cogeneration, alternative energy systems, on-site 
renewable energy systems, renewable electricity 
procurement and green buildings . 
For example, in 2021, we replaced a diesel boiler 
with a water-to-water electric heat pump at our 
manufacturing facility in San Vittore, Switzerland, 
which is expected to reduce the site’s energy use by 
7% and avoid 144 metric tons CO2e annually. We also 
introduced innovative technology at our manufacturin g 
facility in Cali, Colombia, to recover heat from our 
sterilization process and use it to preheat the water 
going into the sterilization system. We expect this to 
reduce the site’s energy use by 2% and avoid 180 
metric tons CO2e annually.2
By the end of 2021, 30% of our energy use for 
operations was derived from renewable sources, 
equivalent to 846,000 megawatt hours (MWh) on an 
annual basis. Biomass fuel for boilers at two of our 
locations3 accounted for 9.5%, and the renewable 
energy component of our purchased electricity and 
renewable energy certificates together represented 
20%. On-site geothermal, solar photovoltaic and solar 
hot water systems also contributed a small amount. Baxter’s energy procurement team sources sustain -
able and economical energy for our manufacturing 
facilities. Globally in 2021, we purchased more than 
430,000 MWh of electricity generated from 100% 
certified renewable power. This included more than 
200,000 MWh for our U.S. sites and more than 
201,000 MWh for our European manufacturing sites 
(94% of the electricity Baxter uses for manufacturin g 
in the region). In 2021, we were recognized as the 
43rd largest corporate purchaser of renewable 
energy in the United States.4  
For a regional breakdown of GHG emissions from  
Baxter operations see the Baxter Data Summary .From late 2020 through 2021, we 
installed on-site solar systems at 
three of our manufacturing facilities .5 
• Amata, Thailand:  A 994 kilowatt 
system that generated 1,247 MWh  
in 2021 and provided 17% of the 
site’s electricity needs 
• Haina, Dominican Republic:  
A 1 megawatt (MW) system,  
which is expected to generate 
about 1,645 MWh annually 
and provide 39% of the site’s 
electricity  needs based on current 
consumption levels
• Lessines, Belgium:  A 1.2 MW 
system, which is expected to 
generate 1,272 MWh annually 
and provide 8% of the site’s 
electricity needs based on current 
consumption levelsGHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 AND 2 ) FROM BAXTER OPERATIONS*
Thousand Metric
Tons CO2eMetric Tons CO2e per Million Dollars of Sales
 2019 2020 2021
Scope 1 300       313 338
Scope 2 297       287 260
Metric Tons CO2e per 53 51 47
Million Dollars of Sales0100200300400500600700
010203040506070
* Some data for 2019 and 2020 are restated from data reported in the Baxter 
2020 Corporate Responsibility Report to improve accuracy and to reflect 
updated GHG emission factors.
Photo:  Solar panels installed at Baxter’s manufacturing facility in Lessines, Belgium.  Photo credit:  Eric WeryBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  23Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Energy Management  
Energy is one of our most significant manufacturing 
costs. Energy efficiency is integral to our climate 
strategy, as it saves money while reducing 
environmental impact.  
Our global energy program applies the ISO 50001 
standard to the company’s facility-level energy 
management systems. By the end of 2021, 22 
Baxter facilities (47% of participating locations6) 
met ISO 50001 requirements. 
In 2021, we used 2.9 million MWh of energy,7 4.4% 
more than in 2020 in absolute terms and 3.1% less 
indexed to revenue. Our energy costs increased 
0.1% compared with 2020, up $220,000.
Site-specific energy assessments help us 
identify opportunities to conserve energy, such 
as implementing new technologies or adopting 
best practices. In 2020 and 2021, we were unable 
to perform on-site energy assessments due to  
COVID-19 -related travel restrictions. Despite this 
setback we continued identifying potential energy 
projects and driving project performance by establishing  bi-monthly meetings with global 
energy managers and regional engineering 
executives. We also conducted cross-facility 
benchmarking focused on energy conservation 
opportunities within the regions and businesses.
As a result, in 2021, we invested $8.9 million to 
implement 196 energy conservation projects 
across our manufacturing sites globally. We 
estimate that these projects will save 33,800 
MWh of energy and $3.3 million and avoid 8,800 
metric tons CO2e of GHG emissions annually.8
We have operated a Lean Energy Program 
for our manufacturing facilities since 
2007. It includes four levels—Prerequisite, 
Bronze, Silver and Gold. Facilities meet the 
criteria for each level as they advance in 
pursuit of Gold. Each level includes program 
requirements, standards of operational 
excellence and technical requirements. 
By year-end 2021, 43 of 47 facilities9 met 
Prerequisite criteria. Of those, 34 also met 
Bronze, 19 met Silver and 5 met Gold.GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain 
Although our carbon neutrality goal focuses on Scope 
1 and 2 emissions, Baxter continues to calculate and 
address Scope 3 GHG emissions10 across our value 
chain. We estimate our 2021  GHG emissions footprint 
(Scope 1, 2 and 3) at 5.259 million metric tons CO2e, 
up 3% from 2020. The main factors contributing to this 
rise were increased sales and production of certain 
products in 2021.
We strive to minimize waste across the product  
life cycle and help healthcare providers meet their 
GHG emissions reduction goals. In 2020, Baxter 
announced a partnership with ZeoSys Medical to pilot 
the CONTRAfluran  Anesthetic Gas Capture system. 
This system allows hospitals to collect anesthetic 
gases exhaled in operating rooms, preventing their 
release into the atmosphere and thereby reducing hospitals’ related GHG emissions. We have piloted 
this capture system in nine European countries 
and are considering further expansion. See 
our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report for 
more information about how the CONTRAfluran  
Anesthetic Gas Capture system works and its 
environmental benefits.
Since 2015, we have offset GHG emissions related 
to global business air travel with United Airlines 
through the CarbonChoice program. In 2021, this 
represented 14% of Baxter’s air travel emissions 
and included 758 metric tons CO2e offset on Baxter’s 
behalf through Sustainable Travel International’s 
portfolio of high-quality carbon offsets, including the 
Trocano Araretama Conservation Project , which is a 
REDD+-certified forest conservation project located 
in the state of Amazonas, Brazil. 
BAXTER’S GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOOTPRINT, 2021
Scope 1   Direct Emissions from 
 Baxter-Owned or -Controlled  
 Sources (such as 
 on-site fuel combustion)
Scope 2   Indirect Emissions from 
 Purchased Electricity 
 and  Steam
 6.4%
4.9%
16.9%
7.8%Scope 3   Purchased Goods
 and Services
Scope 3   Use of Sold ProductsScope 3   Other 15.2 %
48.8 %
Scope 3   Upstream Transportation
 and Distribution 
Total metric 
tons CO2e5,259,000
Photo:  Solar water heater installed at Baxter’s facility in Brazil.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  24Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Product Distribution
Baxter transports more than 5 million metric tons of 
raw materials and finished goods each year, primarily 
in partnership with third-party vendors and carriers. 
Only a small portion of product transportation–related 
GHG emissions are Scope 1 and therefore covered by 
our carbon neutrality goal. However, we continue to 
measure and manage all emissions (including Scope 3) 
across our global supply chain.
Our worldwide GHG emissions from product transport 
totaled 425,800 metric tons CO2e in 2021.11 This is 
equivalent to 84 kilograms CO2e per metric ton of 
products transported, a decrease of 5.6% compared with 
2020. This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in 
air freight associated with prioritizing quick delivery of 
renal supplies and other Baxter products urgently 
needed during the COVID-19 pandemic, though these 
shipments did continue to keep air freight higher than 
pre-pandemic levels. Of these emissions, 17,100 metric 
tons CO2e are Scope 1 emissions attributed to our distribu -
tion vehicles and covered by our carbon neutrality goal.Baxter’s approach to improving efficiency and decreasing  
emissions from product transport includes: 
Technology innovation: In 2021, the primary transpor -
tation service provider utilized by Baxter for our UK 
customers began replacing fossil fuels with biofuel. 
This conversion helped reduce GHG emissions associ-
ated with our UK transportation activities by more than 
2,000 metric tons CO2e in 2021 and is expected to 
reduce GHG emissions by about 4,000 metric tons CO2e 
on an annual basis.12 We also started using biofuel for 
our distribution activities in Brazil, specifically in the 
regions of Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo and the 
countryside of São Paulo. The switch to biofuel helped 
us reduce our GHG emissions by approximately 300 
metric tons CO2e in 2021. 
In addition, for export shipments out of Europe, we 
implemented a project to shift 700 temperature-
controlled shipping containers per year to standard, 
non-temperature-controlled containers. We estimate 
this will reduce associated GHG emissions by more 
than 1,000 metric tons CO2e annually.12 
Environmentally responsible partnerships: Baxter 
participates in the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency’s SmartWay program as both a Carrier and 
Shipper Partner. We also participate in the Clean 
Cargo initiative, which focuses on environmentally 
responsible ocean shipping. Baxter uses EcoTransIT 
software and methodology to capture and report our 
emissions data in alignment with industry bes t  
practices. These partnerships help Baxter calculate 
our transportation emissions with greater accuracy.
Modal shift: In 2021, we changed the default mode 
of transport for our elastomeric infusion pumps from 
air to sea between the United States and Europe, 
decreasing costs and GHG emissions. Congestion in some U.S. ports prevented conversion of all shipments, 
but we expect to expand this practice in future years. 
The temporary obstruction of the Suez Canal in 2021 
significantly delayed ocean shipments between Europe 
and Asia and impacted global supply chains. As Baxter 
worked to mitigate supply disruptions for our customers 
and patients, we shipped more than 1,200 metric tons 
of products by rail instead of air between Europe and 
China.  This helped us avoid an additional 8,000 metric  
tons CO2e of GHG emissions that would have occurred if 
those products had instead been shipped by air. 
Optimizing the distribution network: The majority of 
our EMEA export shipments pass through our ocean 
export consolidation center in Antwerp, Belgium, where 
shipments from different warehouses throughout 
Europe are combined to ensure optimized loads. This 
reduces the total number of containers shipped and 
saves money while increasing supply frequency. 
In addition, we are moving production for some products 
closer to the markets those products serve. For example, 
we began producing hemodialysis products bound for our 
European market in Malta rather than in Mexico.  
In 2021, we improved the pallet configuration for 
transportation of our renal solutions manufactured in 
Canlubang, Philippines, and transported to India and Thailand. Transporting more products per pallet results 
in fewer containers; we expect this to reduce GHG 
emissions by about 60 metric tons CO2e annually.12
MOVING FORWARD  >>
Technology transformation across Baxter will support a 
more refined understanding of our GHG emissions and 
help us drive progress and capitalize on the growing 
demand for lower-carbon healthcare products. 
As we work to cut our own GHG emissions over the next 
decade, we will continue to prioritize energy efficiency 
initiatives and renewable electricity use, including 
purchased electricity and on-site projects, such as biomass. 
For example, we are planning to install cogeneration to  
supply electricity to two of our manufacturing facilities in 
Puerto Rico. In addition to providing the sites with a less 
carbon intensive source of electricity, these projects will 
make the sites more resilient to disruptions in service 
from the local utility due to extreme weather events, such 
as Hurricane Maria in 2017. We will also consider other 
alternative fuel sources as innovation in this area advances. 
We are actively evaluating our ability to report against 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) framework generally and in light of potential 
evolving regulatory disclosure requirements.WORLDWIDE GHG EMISSIONS FROM PRODUCT TRANSPORT 
BY MODE (METRIC TONS )
  
Road  (Scope 1) 15,200 17,100
Road  (Scope 3) 277,300 263,100
Air  (Scope 3) 105,800 84,500
Ocean  (Scope 3) 38,500 46,900
Rail  (Scope 3) 12,800 14,2000100,000200,000300,000400,000500,000
2020               2021
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  25Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Implement Strategic Water Management Plans  
Score: B*
CDP Water Security
*Based on 2020 data.    **Compared with 2020 and indexed to revenue.   2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Implement strategic water management 
plans at prioritized manufacturing locations.* 
*Identify prioritized locations using a risk-based approach by the end of 2023.PERFORMANCE:   In 2021, we collected data from all of our manufacturing sites, which we will  
use as we work toward our 2023 milestone of prioritizing locations for water management. 
We also continued upgrading our manufacturing infrastructure and modernizing our 
operations to improve efficiency and reduce operational risk moving forward.  
APPROACH AND PROGRESS
A healthy water supply is critical for the well-being 
of our patients, the communities where we operate 
and our business. Although water management is a 
global concern, it must be addressed at the local and 
regional levels. We consider the physical, regulatory 
and reputational risks associated with water man -
agement at our sites as we focus on opportunities to 
improve water efficiency in our operations, protect 
watersheds and provide access to clean water within 
local communities.  
In 2021, we identified and allocated the resources we 
should need to achieve our goal. We also engaged 
internal stakeholders to uncover information and 
processes that will advance our work in this area and to establish partnerships across Baxter as we 
developed our roadmap and began working toward our 
commitment to implement strategic water   
management plans. 
We are performing a comprehensive review of our 
manufacturing sites to understand the local context 
of each. This includes the impact that our operations, 
including wastewater discharge, have on the current 
local water supply and additional opportunities to 
improve our water efficiency. This information will 
be critical as we work to prioritize our top water 
management opportunities by the end of 2023. We 
have also started making changes that will modernize 
our operations and reduce water use at some of 
our facilities with the highest usage. These changes 
may increase reported water use initially due to the 
introduction of new equipment and processes, but they 
will ultimately help us mitigate water-related risks. In addition, in 2021, we continued our longstanding  
water management activities across the company, 
including efficiency and wastewater management at 
our manufacturing sites as well as community water  
projects. 
Baxter transparently reports the water-related impacts  
of our business in this report (see the following page 
and the Baxter Data Summary) and in our annual 
response to CDP Water Security , the most recent of 
which received a B based on 2020 data. This CDP Water 
Security score is in the management band and was 
higher than the average scores for the North America 
region and the Medical Equipment & Supplies Sector, 
both of which were B-.Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance 
on the content in this section.
6.6% 
reduction in water use**
7.7% 
reduction in water use for Baxter manufacturing  
sites in water-stressed areas**
Protect  
Our PlanetCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  26Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Manufacturing
Water management
Baxter’s EHS&S Policy outlines our commitment to 
drive programs to help achieve Baxter’s environmental 
goals and reduce our environmental impacts, including 
those related to water use and wastewater discharges . 
Learn more about EHS&S governance at Baxter. 
We work to better understand the impacts of water use 
across our business and implement conservation and efficiency projects at our manufacturing facilities. 
In 2021, we used approximately 14.7 million cubic 
meters of water,1 a 0.6% increase compared with 
2020 and a 6.6% decrease indexed to revenue.
Water is an important raw material for our business,  
and we recognize that water-related risks have the 
potential to negatively impact our operations and 
the communities where we operate. Water issues 
vary significantly by location, and we keep a close 
eye on water stress across our sites, understanding it is a physical risk that could negatively impact our  
business continuity. We use the World Resources  
Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas version 3.0  
to map and analyze current and future risks  
associated with water stress at our most significant  
water-use locations.2
Our 49 most significant water-use locations 
represented 96% of our total water use in 2021. Of 
the 49 sites, 23 are located in medium-high, high 
and extremely high water-stress areas as indicated in the chart below. Of these facilities, 10 use less 
than 100,000 cubic meters of water per year, 
reducing the facilities’ exposure to water risk  
and related impacts across associated watersheds. 
During the year, water use at these 23 sites  
decreased by 0.5% in absolute terms and by 7.7% 
indexed to revenue compared with 2020. 
SELECTED WATER EFFICIENCY PROJECTS, 2021BAXTER MANUFACTURING SITES IN LOCATIONS 
WITH WATER STRESS RISK
LOCATION PROJECT BENEFITS*
Tianjin, 
ChinaWe implemented a project to recover condensed steam from our 
boiler, which was then reused to decrease overall water use at the 
site. This reduction is critical to maintain business continuity since 
this facility operates in a water-stress area and is therefore at 
potential risk for restrictions on water use.  ✓ Reduced total site water use by 22%  
per unit of production
✓ Reduced boiler use of soft water by 50%  
(boiler water use accounted for 30% of all  
water usage for this site in 2021)
Valtellina (Grosotto  
and Sondalo), Italy We implemented several activities to reduce water use, including 
optimization of HVAC systems and cleaning and sanitization 
processes, changes in sterilization cooling, and installation of a  
new glass bottle washing machine.✓ Reduced water use by more than 150,000 
cubic meters
Marion (North Cove),   
North Carolina We executed a series of projects to reduce water use in our 
production processes.   ✓ Reduced water use by more than 100,000 
cubic meters
Halle,  
GermanyWe installed decentralized, efficient chillers to help ensure a reliable 
cold-water supply for our manufacturing process. Integrating 
warehouse ceiling cooling units and compressed air generation into 
the cooling network resulted in well-water savings. ✓ Reduced water use by more than 60,000 
cubic meters    
SITE LOCATION MEDIUM-HIGH HIGH EXTREMELY HIGH
Australia 1  
Belgium    1
Brazil  1 
China 1 2 
Germany 1 3 
India    1
Malta    1
Mexico    3
Saudi Arabia    1
Spain 1  
Thailand 1  
Tunisia  1 
UK  1 
United States 1 1 1
* Compared with 2020.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  27Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Wastewater 
Wastewater discharged from Baxter operations 
remains an important focus of our compliance 
program. For details about our self-reported 
environmental incidents, including exceedances 
of permitted wastewater discharge limits, see 
Compliance. 
Our systematic wastewater risk management 
program identifies emerging issues. As part of 
our proactive commitment, we take an aggressive 
approach to wastewater operations and how we 
identify, evaluate and manage wastewater issues. In 
2021, we undertook the following related activities: 
• Maintained training efforts to strengthen operations
• Continued evaluating the effectiveness of facility 
change management processes for wastewater 
operations  
• Continued assessing wastewater permit compliance  
procedures and recommended improvements
• Established one-on-one recurring meetings  
with sites to address specific compliance and  
performance issues
• Engaged a third party to review compliance 
measures and provide design assurance for 
wastewater improvement projects at high-priority  
facilities
Supporting Access to Clean Water
Access to clean water is a basic human right that 
is crucial for good health and well-being, proper 
sanitation and hygiene, and disease prevention. 
Unfortunately, this vital natural resource is limited in 
many areas of the world, disproportionately affecting  communities with already constrained health 
infrastructure. Baxter and the Baxter International 
Foundation (the Foundation) invest in projects that 
support access to clean water in water-stressed 
areas where we have facilities.
In 2021, we continued our work to provide 
communities in Guatemala and India with access 
to clean water. In addition, the Foundation has 
a Signature Partnership with UNICEF USA to 
increase access to clean water, sanitation and 
hygiene in Colombia. Learn more about our global 
water initiatives.
MOVING FORWARD  >>
Analysis of the data we gathered from our 
manufacturing sites in 2021 will inform what 
additional assessments are needed so we can 
prioritize water management opportunities with 
the highest potential impact. This may include 
onsite assessments as well. In addition, we 
anticipate that our new EHS&S information 
management system will improve data collection 
and analysis. 
Photo:  A project with UNICEF USA is focused on improving access 
to safe water in La Guajira, Colombia, one of the country’s most 
water-challenged regions. Photo provided by UNICEF.
 Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report   27Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  28Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Advance Sustainable Procurement    
2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Integrate Baxter’s sustainable procurement 
strategy across 90% of our supplier spend.* 
*As measured by supplier commitment to Baxter’s Ethics & Compliance Standards and Baxter’s completion of corporate responsibility audits within our supply base.PERFORMANCE:   In 2021, we laid the foundation to calculate progress toward this goal 
in the coming years. We also committed to increase investments in staff and training 
and continued to enhance our internal audit capabilities.   
Created Sustainable Procurement  
Steering Committee81% of participating suppliers 
earned Advanced or Moderate scores on our 
Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey  
APPROACH AND PROGRESS
Baxter is committed to driving sustainable practices 
in our global supply chain and partnering with 
high-performing, innovative suppliers to deliver 
quality products to our customers and value for 
our stakeholders. We prioritize high standards in 
the areas of diversity, ethics, human rights and 
environmental stewardship alongside factors of cost, 
quality and delivery.
In 2021, we created a Sustainable Procurement 
Steering Committee to oversee our efforts. The  
committee is chaired by our Chief Procurement Officer 
and includes leaders from our Supplier Quality, 
Finance and EHS&S teams.  Relevant Policies and Standards
The following standards outline expectations 
and requirements for our suppliers.
 `Supplier Quality Standard
 `Ethics and Compliance Standards for  
Baxter Suppliers 
 `Global Human Rights Policy SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT FOCUS AREAS
We plan to focus on the following priority areas over the coming decade.Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance 
on the content in this section.
Social, Ethics and 
Human RightsMaterial Compliance 
and Conﬂict MineralsEnvironment Supplier 
Diversity  
Manage and reduce risk 
related to social, ethical and 
human rights considerations 
throughout Baxter’s 
integrated supply chain 
Lay a strong foundation of strategy, expertise, processes and technology to drive improved financial 
performance and strong environmental, social and governance practices within Baxter’s supply chainEnsure the highest level of 
compliance with respect to 
global product and 
material regulations  Engage with suppliers 
to reduce their overall 
environmental impactsDrive diversity in 
the first tier of our 
supply chain and beyond  
Governance 
Protect  
Our PlanetCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  29Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Managing Procurement Risks
To improve our corporate responsibility performance, 
we integrate supplier sustainability into our overall 
supplier management processes and conduct periodic 
assessments of key suppliers to evaluate cost, delivery, 
quality and risk. As part of this process, we also examine  
the financial risk of suppliers to help ensure we avoid 
disruptions in supply. We work with suppliers who 
receive low scores in the areas of quality and delivery 
to develop continuous improvement plans. Scores from 
our annual Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey 
(see table at right) feed directly into this assessment.
In 2021, we defined the scope for more in-depth 
sustainability risk mapping for all our suppliers based 
on location, performance, and goods and services 
provided. This will help us prioritize suppliers with the greatest corporate responsibility-related risk factors 
for additional due diligence, corrective action plans 
and/or on-site audits. 
In addition, using a trusted third-party service, we 
receive near-real-time notifications when disruptions 
occur in areas of the world where our suppliers are 
located. These could include natural disasters, fires, 
major weather events or geopolitical activity. Using 
this information, we are able to respond quickly to 
help ensure supply continuity.
Supplier Audits
In 2021, more than 630 audits of Baxter suppliers 
were conducted related to management systems for 
product quality. Learn more about our approach to 
product quality . 
In addition, we are increasing our capacity and 
developing our capability to audit suppliers’ 
sustainability management systems and performance 
related to environment, labor and human rights, 
ethics and sustainable procurement. To accomplish 
this, we are exploring the possibility of developing 
our internal sustainability auditing capabilities or 
collaborating with third-party auditors. Expanding the 
scope of our auditing will improve our understanding 
of our supplier base and help us identify areas for 
improvement. We plan to begin conducting these 
corporate responsibility audits in 2023.  
Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey
Baxter collaborates with business sustainability 
ratings firm EcoVadis to conduct an annual survey of 
our suppliers’ corporate responsibility programs and 
performance. The assessment covers environment,  labor and human rights, ethics, and sustainable 
procurement. Results in 2021 included data from 369 
Baxter suppliers, an increase from 211 suppliers in 
2020. Of the 369 participating suppliers in 2021, 47% 
are from Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); 41% 
from the Americas; and 11% from Asia Pacific (APAC). 1   
Suppliers have access to detailed scorecards on 
the EcoVadis platform, including information about 
strengths and benchmark comparisons, as well as 
actionable improvement areas. We use these score -
cards to drive ongoing improvement and anticipate 
increased participation as we expand supplier 
engagement in the coming years. We also include 
survey scores in our business reviews with strategic 
suppliers for ongoing discussion and monitoring. In 
the future, we plan to further leverage the EcoVadis system to create corrective action plans for suppliers  
falling below our performance standards and deter -
mine  when on-site audits are necessary. 
MOVING FORWARD  >>
Baxter will continue investing in our people, 
technology and processes to integrate our 
sustainable procurement strategy throughout  
our supply chain and put systems in place to 
help us more efficiently and effectively measure 
progress and improve performance over time. In 
the coming years, we will roll out a robust supplier 
audit program that complements our risk mapping 
process. We are also working to further integrate 
supplier sustainability considerations throughout 
our procurement functions.Industry Collaboration  
Baxter collaborates with other healthcare 
companies and organizations to improve efficiency 
and advance responsible procurement. For 
example, we are a member of the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative , an organization that 
facilitates knowledge sharing in support of 
responsible supply chain practices.
In addition, to establish a secure supply chain, 
we participate in programs such as the Customs 
Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) 
program, which supports a secure and reliable 
supply of lifesaving medical products. This 
includes shipments of raw materials and finished 
products both to and from various Baxter 
locations, foreign suppliers, distributors and 
customers. As an importer and exporter, Baxter 
has been recognized as a Tier III Partner (the 
highest level possible) in the program since 2011.SUMMARY OF SUPPLIER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SURVEY SCORES, 2019 –2021*
* The performance categories presented in this table align with the EcoVadis methodology. “Advanced” indicates structured and proactive corporate responsibility (CR) approach; 
policies and tangible actions on major topics with significant CR reporting. “Moderate” indicates structured and proactive CR approach; policies and tangible actions on major 
topics with basic CR reporting. “Partial” indicates no structured CR approach; few tangible actions on selected topics; certifications related to sites and/or products are only partial. 
“Insufficient” indicates no engagements or tangible actions regarding CR. Data from 2019 are based only on the survey for that year. Data for 2020 reflect suppliers participating in 
Baxter’s supplier sustainability monitoring program, as of March 2, 2021. Data for 2021 reflect suppliers participating in Baxter’s supplier sustainability monitoring program, as of 
Jan. 31, 2022. In some cases, segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding. 
 
   Environment 36% 36% 40% 47% 43% 38% 17% 20% 19% 1% 2% 1%
   Labor and Human Rights  23% 22% 28% 54% 54% 51% 23% 23% 20% 1% 1% 1%
   Ethics 15% 19% 24% 58% 51% 55% 27% 27% 20% 1% 3% 2%
   Sustainable Procurement  22% 17% 20% 43% 39% 37% 33% 36% 36% 3% 8% 7%
   Overall 27% 27% 28% 55% 50% 53% 18% 23% 19% 1% 1% 0%
   Cross-Industry Average  3% 4% 5% 39% 41% 42% 54% 51% 48% 4% 4% 4%2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021Advanced Moderate Partial InsuﬃcientPERCENT OF PARTICIPATING SUPPLIERSBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  30Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Implement Strategic Materials and Waste Management Plans   
2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Implement prioritized waste mitigation 
opportunities* in Baxter’s integrated supply chain, from procurement to distribution.
*Identify prioritized waste generation sources by the end of 2024.PERFORMANCE:   In 2021, we continued to mitigate waste at Baxter through process  
efficiency, waste reduction, recovery, recycling and landfill diversion. We also further  
engaged stakeholders to identify additional opportunities for reduction and to inform our  
strategy and facilitate prioritization of waste generation sources by 2024. 
77.1% 
overall recycling rate*** 9.0% 
overall reduction in 
waste generation*
*Compared with 2020 and indexed to revenue.  **Certain waste streams at two facilities in Europe have government-mandated requirements. These waste streams are excluded from the total. ***Incineration with energy recovery is considered recycling.
APPROACH AND PROGRESS
Ineffective materials and waste management leads 
to natural resource depletion and increased waste 
generation, impacting the environment and human 
health. At Baxter, we strive to gain a comprehensive 
understanding of waste-related impacts across our 
value chain to reduce waste and drive a transition 
from a linear approach of “take, make, dispose,” to 
a more circular approach that maximizes materials 
value throughout the product life cycle. 
We are working to identify all waste generation sources  
at Baxter and prioritize our top waste mitigation 
opportunities. In 2021, we refined our strategy by 
conducting benchmarks, gathering data and engaging 
internal stakeholders across Baxter—including 
colleagues on our finance, procurement, EHS&S  and 
operational excellence teams, among others.  We also continued our longstanding waste 
mitigation efforts related to sustainable design, 
materials use, operations, product distribution and 
end-of-life recovery. 
Sustainable Design
Through sustainable design, we minimize our 
environmental impacts and capture as much 
value as possible from the natural resources used 
to manufacture, transport, use and recover our 
products. To support these efforts, we require 
an EHS&S assessment during the development 
process for all new products. This assessment 
evaluates EHS&S and regulatory considerations 
and requirements across our value chain, covering 
materials use, waste and other factors. The 
assessment also includes more detailed life cycle 
assessment (LCA)–based computer modeling of 
proposed products and may involve comparison with existing products. For select new and established 
products, we use full LCAs to evaluate and help 
improve product sustainability performance. 
Materials Use in Products and Packaging
Materials use is a key driver of Baxter’s environmental 
footprint and getting the most value possible from 
materials is central to our transition toward a more 
circular approach. 
Products 
Baxter works to reduce materials use in products 
without affecting efficacy, and to avoid or minimize 
materials of concern. See several examples in the 
Baxter 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report. 
Driving innovation to improve clinical outcomes can 
also decrease materials use and waste. Recent studies 
indicate that several Baxter products can help reduce  
hospitalizations and the length of hospital stays.  This in turn can decrease the associated materials 
use and related environmental impacts. For example: 
• Our Sharesource remote patient management 
platform may improve survival rates and reduce 
hospitalizations. Learn more. 
• Expanded hemodialysis therapy, enabled by the 
Theranova dialyzer, may reduce hospitalization 
rates by 18% compared with standard hemodialysis.  
Learn more. 
• Using active hemostatic products alone was 
associated with lower rates of bleeding-related 
complications, shorter hospital stays and reduced 
total hospital costs compared with combined use 
of passive and active hemostats. Learn more.  Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance 
on the content in this section.
21 manufacturing sites** 
achieved or exceeded landfill 
diversion rates of 95%  
$2.5 million
in net income generated through  
recycling***
Protect  
Our PlanetCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  31Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Packaging
Baxter reduces the amount of materials used in 
packaging and substitutes with environmentally 
preferable alternatives when possible. Examples 
from 2021 include:1
• Australia and New Zealand: At all of our com -
pounding sites in Australia and New Zealand, 
we replaced non-recyclable foil and polystyrene 
with recyclable, biodegradable package lining  
made from 100% sheep’s wool in boxes used to 
distribute  products to customers. The new liner 
provides additional cushioning for the products 
and protection from heat and moisture. 
• Mexico: For our IV solutions and renal products 
(6L and twin bag) being distributed in Mexico, 
our Cuernavaca site replaced the solvent-based 
adhesive used for the cardboard shipping boxes 
with a water-based adhesive. For our 6L renal solutions being shipped to the United States, 
the site replaced virgin cardboard boxes sourced 
from the United States with boxes made from 
100% recycled content that are manufactured by a 
local vendor. We expect these efforts to eliminate 
the use of 1,396 metric tons of virgin material on 
an annual basis.
• Belgium: We implemented a project at our 
facility in Lessines to reduce the thickness of the 
low-density polyethylene (LDPE) liner in the  
Nutrition product carton box. We expect this 
project to reduce LDPE use by 57 metric tons 
per year and save $165,000 annually.
Operations
Baxter works to reduce nonhazardous and regulated 
waste, and to increase recycling at our manufacturing 
and office facilities. 
Plastic scrap from manufacturing was our largest 
waste stream, representing more than 40% of our 
nonhazardous waste in 2021. As a result, reducing 
plastic scrap is a significant priority for our company 
and several of our facilities implemented or contin -
ued reuse, reduction and recycling projects in 2021.  
Examples include: 
• Italy: In 2020, our manufacturing sites in Valtellina 
(Grosotto and Sondalo) partnered with a waste 
company to convert scrap film into small plastic 
granules that are used as raw materials to  
produce plastic items, such as boxes and pallets. 
In 2021, we diverted 182 metric tons of plastic 
scrap for reuse through this initiative, of which  
28 metric tons were used for production of plastic 
pallets for Valtellina. • Switzerland: In San Vittore, we reduced film scrap 
by 70 metric tons compared with 2020. In 2021, 
the site captured and converted 930 metric tons of 
film into plastic granules that were sold externally. 
• United States: Our Marion (North Cove), North 
Carolina, facility captures plastic scrap and then 
regrinds and recycles it for reuse in manufactur -
ing processes. In 2021, the site used nearly 2,500 
metric tons of PVC regrind and 168 metric tons of 
high-density polyethylene (HDPE) regrind.
To manage waste disposal appropriately and to com -
ply with applicable regulatory requirements,  Baxter 
requires facilities to dispose of all hazardous or other 
regulated waste at disposal sites that Baxter has inspected or from which the company has otherwise 
received sufficient assurance of acceptable perfor -
mance. Baxter applies the same waste site auditing 
standards worldwide and trains internal auditors 
to evaluate disposal site risk consistently. In addi -
tion, Baxter works with CHWMEG, Inc., a nonprofit 
organization that enables companies to collectively 
purchase expert waste site audits. 
Waste reduction and recycling help us decrease 
the waste we send to landfills. In 2021, 21 of our 
manufacturing sites2 (41% of the total) achieved or 
exceeded landfill diversion rates of 95%. Thirteen 
additional sites (25% of the total) achieved diversion 
rates of 80% or higher. 
BAXTER 2021 WASTE AND RECYCLING IN OPERATIONS
    * Total waste includes nonhazardous and regulated waste. To more closely reflect production efficiency and support consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends,    
       we exclude certain nonroutine, nonproduction-related waste streams  from our total waste performance data. These waste streams are construction and demolition debris,  
       remediation waste, wastewater treatment sludge and discarded manufacturing and process-related machinery or equipment.
  ** We report “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste.” This term includes some materials that would otherwise be classified as nonhazardous waste in some countries,  
       which helps Baxter harmonize waste reporting across locations. In addition to waste typically considered hazardous (such as toxics and corrosives), we also include oils,    
       biohazardous or infectious materials, batteries, fluorescent lamps and other materials that may not be defined as hazardous waste by national legislation at the point of origin.
*** Incineration with energy recovery is considered recycling.  71,200
 metric tons Total Waste* Nonhazardous Waste Regulated Waste**
5,300  metric tons 
(7.5% of total waste)
14.0% decrease in absolute 
terms, compared 
with 2020
20.2% decrease indexed to 
revenue, compared 
with 202065,900  metric tons 
(92.5% of total 
waste)
0.9% decrease in 
absolute terms, 
compared with 2020
8.0% decrease indexed 
to revenue, 
compared with 2020Recycling ***
79.6% of nonhazardous
waste recycled77.1% overall 
recycling rate 
48.6% of regulated
waste recycled
$2.5 million in net income
generated through
recyclingPhoto:  Wool liners protect 
and insulate compounded 
products in Australia and 
New Zealand.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  32Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Product Distribution
Baxter aims to conserve natural resources and reduce 
waste wherever possible during product distribution.
Our EMEA region uses more than 1 million pallets a 
year. In 2021, we introduced a conservation project to 
reduce cost and pallet turnover. This initiative increases  
pallet circularity and extends pallet life through: 
• Increasing the return rate for pallets we ship to 
customers so we can reuse those pallets for future 
shipments 
• Replacing wooden pallets used for home deliveries 
with plastic pallets, which we reuse for subsequent 
deliveries
• Recovering U.S. pallets received in Europe for reuse 
in U.S.-bound shipments
• Using second-hand pallets or pallets made from 
recycled content 
We expect this initiative to significantly reduce the 
number of pallets Baxter purchases, leading to sub-
stantial cost savings. Furthermore, we have created 
global guidance for recycled pallet use.
Product End-of-Life
While Baxter’s 2030 goal to implement strategic 
materials and waste management plans focuses on 
our integrated supply chain, product end-of-life 
remains a priority for our company. We work with 
customers, industry peers and recycling and disposal 
vendors to facilitate the recycling and responsible 
treatment of medical products. To support broader 
advances in this area, Baxter is a charter member of 
the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC).Disposable Medical Products
Baxter has programs to facilitate recycling for 
patients and hospitals in Australia, New Zealand, 
Guatemala and Colombia. 
Australia and New Zealand: We collaborate with 
partners to recover used Baxter PVC fluid bags and 
aluminum anesthetic gas bottles from hospitals in 
Australia and New Zealand. In 2021, we collected 
140 metric tons of PVC and 0.5 metric tons of alu -
minum bottles for recycling, saving our customers 
approximately $106,000 that would have otherwise 
been spent on disposal.
Guatemala: We partner with Biotrash, a Central 
American waste management company, to collect 
and recycle PVC and polypropylene from hospitals 
and dialysis clinics in Guatemala, equaling 15.3 
metric  tons in 2021. Biotrash recycles PVC to make 
shoe soles and uses recovered polypropylene to 
manufacture bricks for use in its own facilities.
Colombia: In 2021, Baxter Renal Care Services in 
Colombia collected 69.4 metric tons of PVC for  
recy cling from dialysis clinics and home dialysis 
patients. The collection program for home dialysis 
patients alone was responsible for 38.4 metric tons 
of the PVC collected, a significant increase compared 
with 14.7 metric tons collected the prior year. We 
partner with organizations that use the recovered 
PVC to make chairs, water hoses, accessories for 
purses, shoe soles and other items.
Electronic Equipment
Some of the electromechanical medical devices we 
sell, such as automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) 
cyclers, support serviceability, repair and reuse. We lease certain types of electromechanical medical 
products to customers and patients, which allows 
for those products to be returned to Baxter. In 2021, 
most of our previous generation of APD cyclers in 
EMEA reached end-of-service. The decommissioned 
devices were sent to a Baxter recovery center for 
critical spare parts harvesting or for recertification 
for reuse in other markets. This recovery of about 
6,200 devices and spare parts avoided approximately 
105 metric tons of waste.
Regulations in many countries worldwide require 
responsible recycling of electronic products when 
reuse is no longer an option. In 2021, our vendors 
recovered approximately 110 metric tons of electronic 
equipment in the EU on Baxter’s behalf, in compliance with the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
(WEEE) Directive. Our WEEE website provides custom-
ers detailed information on how to return or dispose of 
Baxter products in accordance with the directive.
MOVING FORWARD  >>
Assessing waste generation sources across Baxter will 
provide us with opportunities to improve data quality, 
address information gaps and standardize processes. 
Our employees and cross-functional collaboration will 
be essential in striving toward our 2030 waste goal. We 
also expect near-term opportunities as we implement 
a new EHS&S information management system. 
Photo:  Plastic pallets manufactured with Baxter’s plastic scrap in Valtellina, Italy.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  33Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
At Baxter, we are committed to driving sustainability 
throughout our global manufacturing operations.1 
We strive to conserve resources, including water 
and energy , minimize use of hazardous chemicals, 
and reduce emissions, discharges and waste . At the 
same time, we prioritize environmental compliance 
and operational excellence. These efforts have been 
cost-effective and enhance the company’s environ -
mental performance while furthering our objective 
to be an environmental leader in our industry.  We 
also work to identify and reduce the environmental 
impacts of our supply chain and products.
Baxter’s EHS&S Policy outlines our commitment 
within our operations and across the value chain 
to prioritize compliance, promote health and safety, 
and protect the planet. 
ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY 
PERFORMANCE
In 2021, we took significant steps to further 
strengthen EHS&S governance, adding dedicated 
roles to our team focused on our assurance 
activities, management systems and our digital 
transformation. This new structure re-affirms our 
commitment to compliance and operational 
excellence, supports achievement of our goals and 
helps to create long-term business value.Management Systems
We follow a management systems approach guided by 
our global EHS&S requirements. We apply the ISO 14001 
standard to manage our environmental aspects and   
the ISO 45001 standard to manage our health and safety 
hazards and risks. As of year-end 2021, 62 Baxter 
locations were ISO certified, of which 61 met ISO 14001 
and 45 met ISO 45001 requirements. Of these 62 total 
certified locations, 47 are manufacturing sites (78% of 
total Baxter manufacturing locations2).
Audits
Baxter’s EHS&S audit program helps to ensure that 
our facilities have programs that satisfy applicable 
regulatory requirements and are consistent with our 
EHS&S requirements, objectives and goals. In addition 
to conducting internal EHS&S audits in 2021, Baxter 
also utilized third parties to conduct EHS&S audits in  
26 facilities.3
Compliance
Environmental compliance and health and safety  
compliance are foundational to Baxter’s EHS&S 
program. We address instances of noncompliance with  
urgency, work to identify root causes and implement 
controls to help prevent recurrence. In 2021, we 
received 12 environmental Notices of Violation (NOVs). 
Eight NOVs were related to events that occurred prior 
to 2021, and the other four were related to events that 
occurred in 2021. Eleven were received at facilities Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
Governance and Additional Disclosures 
Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance 
on the content in this section.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  34Protect  
Our Planet
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsAppendixChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCross-Cutting 
Commitments
STRIVING FOR FULL MATERIALS 
DISCLOSURE
Baxter’s corporate responsibility approach prioritizes 
compliance with product chemical and medical device 
regulations. Working with a third party, we collect data 
from suppliers to determine the use of materials of 
high concern. This helps us to confirm compliance with 
global material regulations and assists us in proactively  
monitoring the impact that changes in global legislation 
might have on our product portfolio. We also continue 
to leverage third-party testing, which provides us with 
full material data and LCAs for many of our devices, 
helps validate device compliance with chemical legis-
lation , and provides information we need to respond 
to environmental questionnaires from customers. As 
of the end of 2021, we completed testing for 173 of 
our products, which covered more than 16,500 parts. 
This included many of our electromechanical devices, 
which are the most complex products in our portfolio 
in terms of number of parts and materials.Additionally, as a member of MedTech Europe, we are 
working with other multinational pharmaceutical/
medical device companies to drive full materials 
disclosure in global material compliance, and we 
contribute to several working groups. We support 
greater understanding of the hazardous substances 
requirements of the EU Medical Device Regulation by 
sharing information within Baxter and across the 
industry related to our full materials disclosure 
testing and analysis program, including materials 
commonly used in products that could potentially be 
replaced or eliminated. This supports consistent 
interpretation and efficient compliance with related 
regulations within the industry. To inform our efforts, 
we also monitor ongoing developments with the 
RoHS Directive and REACH Regulation.MATERIALS OF CONCERN
Our global strategies and programs help ensure 
that we meet product materials restrictions. In 
addition, we work to avoid or minimize materials of 
concern as part of our EHS&S product reviews and 
by consulting numerous regulatory lists. These reg -
ulations and lists include, but are not limited to:
• EU REACH Substances of Very High Concern
• EU RoHS Directive
• EU Medical Devices Regulation
• U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act
• U.S. SEC conflict minerals
• California Proposition 65
In 2021, we continued to move away from products 
containing substances of concern in all regions. 
This includes launching a non-DEHP version of 
30 solution sets and 19 irrigation solutions, and 
retiring eight elastomeric infusion pumps which 
contained DEHP in the Americas, EMEA and APAC. 
We also upgraded our Evo IQ LVP Pump (in the 
Americas, EMEA and APAC) and Starling Monitors 
(in EMEA) to RoHS-3 compliance. Additionally, 
Baxter converted 120 global solution sets to limit 
perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) in accordance with 
EU regulations.
Other substances we seek to avoid or minimize 
include endocrine disrupters, latex, phthalates, 
volatile organic compounds and others that might 
not be included in the lists above. See Baxter’s 
position statements on Proposition 65, REACH, 
and conflict minerals, and our most recent Conflict 
Minerals Report.in the United States and Puerto Rico, and one was 
received at a Baxter Renal Care Services  site in 
Colombia for an event that occurred in 2016. No 
fines related to the environmental NOVs noted above 
were assessed in 2021. We also received two health 
and safety letters during the year, one at a facility 
in China and the other at a site in the United States. 
One health and safety fine for $7,802 was assessed in 
2021 related to the NOV in the United States. View the 
Baxter Data Summary for more detail.  
Wastewater discharged from Baxter operations has 
historically been, and remains, an important focus 
of our compliance program. In 2021, 85% of Baxter’s 
self-reported environmental incidents were exceed -
ances or noncompliances of permitted wastewater 
discharge requirements; 93% of those were from the 
Americas region (North America and Latin America) 
and the remaining 7% were from the EMEA region. 
None of these noncompliances resulted in a fine. To 
manage these matters, Baxter applied both internal  
and external resources and worked to enhance 
internal wastewater operational practices, training 
and other facility engagement opportunities. 
Baxter has reduced emissions of hazardous air 
pollutants (HAPs) significantly during the last several  
decades as it has been an area of focus since 1988. 
Baxter continues to reduce emissions of HAPs. In 
2021, HAPs from our Mountain Home, Arkansas, 
facility were reduced by more than 65% of 2020 levels 
due, in part, to the investment of what will be a total 
of over $50 million in state-of-the-art control  tech-
nology. We continue to evaluate additional upgrades 
across our facilities. View the Baxter Data Summary 
for more detail. 
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  35Champion Our People 
and Communities
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Invest in Underserved  
Communities Globally ............3 6
Achieve Top Quartile Workplace  
Safety Performance ..............3 9
Increase Representation of  
Women and Ethnic Minorities  
in Leadership Roles ..............4 1Create a best place to 
work for our employees 
and make a meaningful 
difference in communities 
around the world
Champion
Our People
and
Communities
Photo credit:  
Save the Children 
MexicoChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsAppendixBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  36Champion Our People 
and Communities
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
APPROACH AND PROGRESS  
Investing in our communities is central to our corporate responsibility approach. By pledging to contribute 
$275 million over the next 10 years, we aim to tackle some of the world’s toughest health and social challenges 
by leveraging our expertise and experience, as well as our employees’ passion to accelerate community-driven 
solutions alongside leading global partners. We cultivate innovative partnerships and catalyze positive impact in 
communities  where our employees live and work, prioritizing social investments and solutions where we can make 
a meaningful difference. 
We engage three philanthropic channels to reach underserved communities, helping those with the least 
resources remove barriers to healthcare access. These include product donations and charitable giving from 
Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation (the Foundation). 
Product Donations
Through Baxter’s product donations, we address unmet healthcare needs and improve health outcomes in un -
derserved communities by supporting community-based health programs, medical missions and natural disaster  
preparedness and response efforts. To advance our commitment, we proactively build product donations into our 
corporate responsibility strategy by manufacturing products twice a year purposely for donation to our trusted 
humanitarian partners. This manufacture-to-donate strategy, an industry best practice, enables partners to rely 
on having Baxter’s critically needed, long-dated products available year-round—not solely during emergency 
situations —to help provide sustained support for underserved communities around the world. In 2021, we donated 
products valued at more than $36 million1 through this program to Americares, Direct Relief and Partners In Health.
We also continued to make chemotherapy drugs available through our U.S. Patient Assistance Program. This program 
supports cancer patients who have financial barriers to access and lack insurance or prescription drug coverage.2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Invest $275 million in underserved 
communities through strategic partnerships and product donations from Baxter and the 
Baxter International Foundation.PERFORMANCE:   In 2021, Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation invested 
nearly $52 million in underserved communities through strategic partnerships, 
grants and product donations .
*By Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation.  **Through the Baxter Manufacture-to-Donate program. Value of products donated (provided at no cost) is provided by partners based on wholesale acquisition cost at the time of donation. This number may be greater or less than the value of Baxter products distributed during the year by our relief partners.
HOW WE GIVE
Product 
DonationsCorporate Financial 
ContributionsBaxter International 
Foundation Financial 
Contributions
Manufacture-to-Donate 
program
U.S. Patient Assistance 
Program
Medical missions support
Disaster relief donationsBusiness and facility giving
Charitable contributions 
to cultural and educational 
institutions, network 
memberships and 
healthcare organizations
Value of Baxter employee 
volunteer timeSignature Partnerships 
Grants for disaster relief 
and community, healthcare 
and STEM programs* 
Matching Gift and  
Dollars for Doers programs 
Global scholarships
Prize programs
Employee Disaster Relief FundInvest in Underserved Communities Globally
$52 million
in cash and products contributed  
to communities worldwide*
94 countries reached 
through philanthropic giving*
8 Signature  
Partnerships supported$36 million +
in products donated**
    * Contributions to U.S.-based 501(c)(3) organizations for programs within and outside of the United States.Champion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  37Champion Our People 
and Communities
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Financial Contributions
Baxter’s commitment to corporate giving leverages a 
range of financial donations across our value chain to 
help our communities thrive. We fund healthcare  orga -
nizations that increase access to patient care, advance 
education and support advocacy, and we  promote 
resilience in the communities we serve through the 
volunteer activities of our employees. In addition, as 
a socially responsible member of the community, we 
provide charitable contributions to cultural institutions 
in the Chicago area to create meaningful engagement 
opportunities for local employees. We also enhance 
business interests through professional membership 
associations.
In 2021, despite the global impact of COVID-19, our 
employees recorded a total of 22,000 volunteer hours, 
giving back in the communities where they live and work. 
We estimate the value of our employees’ combined  
volunteer hours in 2021 to be nearly $659,000.2 
Baxter International Foundation Financial 
Contributions
The Foundation partners with organizations around 
the world to increase access to healthcare for the 
underserved; bolster science, technology, engineering  
and math (STEM) education to develop the next 
generation of healthcare innovators; and promote 
community resilience. With these priorities as a 
guide, the Foundation makes strategic investments in 
areas where Baxter’s employees live, work and give.
Through its Signature Partnerships worldwide, the 
Foundation focuses on long-term strategic investments 
with organizations that align with its strategic pillars. THE BAXTER INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION STRATEGIC PILLARS
Increase Access 
to Healthcare
Foster 
Tomorrow’s
Innovation 
in STEMPromote 
Community
ResiliencePartnering to Make a Difference
The Baxter International Foundation focuses its 
giving through Signature Partnerships around the 
globe, which have benefited hundreds of thousands 
of individuals and families worldwide since 2016. 
In alignment with Baxter’s ACT: Activating Change 
Today initiative to advance racial justice, the 
Foundation established a $3.5 million partnership 
with Thurgood Marshall College Fund at the end 
of 2021. Formally beginning with the 2022/2023 
school year, this three-year grant will fund 
scholarships and mentoring as part of a multi-
faceted approach to improve graduation rates by 
providing support for students at Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities who are pursuing careers 
in STEM and education. Learn more. 
Through its Signature Partnership with Operation 
Smile, the Foundation is helping to advance safe 
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report   37Relevant Policies and Standards
Our manufacture-to-donate product donation 
strategy aligns with the following: 
 `World Health Organization guidelines  
for medicine donations 
 `Partnership for Quality Medical Donations 
guidelines surgery in underserved communities in India. 
The partnership supports care centers that 
treat patients of all ages with cleft conditions 
and expands opportunities for education 
and training of local healthcare workers. In 
2021, the Foundation’s grant funded 82% of 
operations in India, allowing Operation Smile to 
reach more than 11,600 individuals, including 
serving nearly 2,900 patients with surgical and 
multidisciplinary care. Based on the success of 
the partnership, the Foundation expanded its 
initial three-year grant with an additional $2 
million commitment over three years to reach 
more underserved communities across India.  The 
increased investment will further improve access 
to healthcare through a hub-and-spoke model to 
reach more underserved communities and provide 
an increased focus on improving nutrition as an 
integral part of preparing patients for cleft surgery. 
Learn more. 
Signature Partnerships in 2021 included programs and initiatives with the following organizations:
American Diabetes 
Association
Address health disparities 
for those with diabetes 
in the United States 
(learn more) Improve water, sanitation 
and hygiene services in 
Colombia (learn more) 
2021–2023Direct Relief
Improve diabetes care 
in underserved 
U.S. communities 
(learn more) 
2019–2022Northwestern 
University Baxter 
Center for Science 
Education
STEM support for U.S. educators 
and students (learn more)   
Since 2009
Operation Smile
Advancing Safe Surgery 
in India (see case study above)   
2019–2024Partners In Health
Expand access to surgical 
care for women in Mexico   
2022–2024*Save the Children
Support global COVID-19 
pandemic recovery
(learn more) 
2020–2022Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund
Assist students at Historically 
Black Colleges and Universities 
(see case study above)   
2022–2025*UNICEF USA
2021–2023
    * Funding distributed in 2021.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  38Champion Our People 
and Communities
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
To foster innovation and promote community resilience, 
the Foundation also supports diverse STEM learning 
opportunities and encourages employees to serve 
as mentors in communities worldwide. Since 1996, 
Baxter and the Foundation have provided $19 million 
to advance STEM education. In 2021, key partnerships 
included: 
• The Illinois Science and Technology Institute’s 
annual STEM Challenge engaged 24 Baxter 
employees to serve as mentors for high school 
students participating in the six-month program 
to develop innovative solutions for real-world 
business challenges in STEM fields. During the 
year, students were tasked with developing new 
technologies to improve patient health outcomes 
through telehealth and access to clean water.
• Since 1996, Baxter and the Foundation have 
supported FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition 
of Science and Technology) Robotics’ mission, to 
inspire young people to be science and technology 
leaders and innovators. As a founding member, 
we’ve provided more than $3 million in funding for 
local teams and regional competitions. In addition to supporting organizations devoted to STEM 
education, the Foundation also awards merit-based 
scholarships to our employees’ children. A third party 
evaluates student applications based on academic, 
extracurricular and employment accomplishments. In 
2021, the Foundation awarded 103 new scholarships 
and renewed 160 scholarships for students from 29 
countries worldwide. 
The Foundation supports and amplifies the giving 
and volunteer efforts of Baxter’s employees through 
its Matching Gift and Dollars for Doers programs. In 
2021, the Foundation provided more than $709,000 
to match employee giving and $40,000 in Dollars for 
Doers volunteer grants. 
In 2021, the Foundation also continued sponsoring 
prize programs that recognize organizations and indi-
viduals who have made outstanding contributions and 
exhibited leadership in healthcare research and health 
service delivery. 
• The William B. Graham Prize 
• The Foster G. McGaw Prize
• The Episteme Award 
Reaching Vulnerable Communities Globally Through Americares
Baxter partners with humanitarian organizations in various ways to carry out our mission to save and sustain 
lives. One of our longstanding partners is Americares, an organization we have collaborated with since 1987. 
Through our Manufacture-to-Donate program, Americares distributes Baxter products globally to provide 
relief in emergency situations. In 2021, we donated products valued at $2.5 million3 to this partner. We also 
became a supporter of the Americares Emergency Response Fund to help ensure pre-positioned funding 
is available for rapid deployment through its emergency network at the onset of a disaster. In addition, 
we support U.S. medical outreach teams that travel overseas to provide charitable care to underserved 
populations. While fewer medical mission trips occurred in 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Americares 
distributed Baxter products in 15 countries as part of 32 medical mission trips. 
Learn more about Baxter’s partnership with Americares.
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report   38BAXTER GLOBAL CHARITABLE GIVING, 2021Disaster Relief
We provide disaster relief support through in -
vestments in preparedness, immediate response 
and recovery efforts that expand access to care 
in collaboration with our humanitarian partners. 
Our response to disasters can include product 
donations as well as cash giving from the Baxter 
International Foundation. In 2021, we provided 
disaster relief globally in the form of cash and 
products, in cluding for an earthquake in Haiti, 
tornadoes and storms in the United States and 
global COVID-19 humanitarian response efforts.MOVING FORWARD  >>
Our approach to community investment has evolved in 
recent years due to the COVID-19 pandemic and a greater 
focus on racial justice. We have expanded our efforts to 
increase access to healthcare and promote commu -
nity resilience through strategic engagement with our 
partners. We have gained a greater understanding of their 
most pressing needs and responded accordingly with our 
community investments. We expect this trend to continue.  
To further elevate our strategic approach, we plan to 
build digital monitoring and evaluation systems to collect, 
analyze and share data related to the impact of our giving. 
We will also expand opportunities for our employees to 
engage in community support around the world. 
* Reflects programmatic location of Baxter 
International Foundation grants and 
scholarships and business and facility cash 
donations mapped by location of Baxter 
office outside the United States.Baxte r Product Di strib uted
Cash Contributio ns*
Both94 countries 
reach ed through:Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  39Champion Our People 
and Communities
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Achieve Top Quartile Workplace Safety Performance 
2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Achieve top quartile workplace safety 
performance annually in total recordable incident rate.*
*Among global companies across industries as reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.PERFORMANCE:   Baxter’s total recordable incident rate in 2021 ranked in the top quartile, 
achieving our goal for the year. **
**Compared with 2019 data, which was the most recent data available from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics at the time our 2030 Corporate Responsibility Goal was established.
*Compared with 2020. Rates include COVID-19 cases. Public health guidance varies around the world concerning isolation and quarantine days for COVID-19. Probable work-related COVID-19 cases average 10 days lost per CDC guidance and account for days away from work due to the illness. 33% 
decrease in cases with  
days lost rate *20% 
decrease in total recordable  
incident rate*92% 
of facilities worldwide took part 
in Healthy Eating Month
APPROACH AND PROGRESS
At Baxter we aim for a zero-harm workplace. Every 
employee has the right to a work environment free of 
recognized hazards, with safety protocols to help keep 
them injury-free. This is a fundamental value for our 
company  as we strive to be a best place to work. Our 
strategy for the next decade prioritizes the elimination 
of major and high-frequency injuries,1 complemented 
by ongoing  digital analytics and employee engagement, 
training and mentoring to drive continual improvement. 
Baxter follows a management-systems approach guided 
by our global Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustain -
ability (EHS&S) requirements. For more about Baxter’s 
EHS&S Policy and management system, see Environ-
mental, Health, Safety and Sustainability Governance and 
Additional Disclosures. We define the responsibilities of 
corporate, regional and facility-level occupational health 
and safety professionals and hold leaders accountable for achieving goals and targets. In 2021, the EHS&S  
organization reported employee safety performance to 
senior leadership and manufacturing and supply chain 
management monthly. EHS&S also communicates  
performance annually to Baxter’s Board of Directors. 
During the year, we continued to engage our operational 
workforce in hazard identification and immediate 
corrective actions where feasible. Injury and illness 
metrics provide focus for Baxter’s safety, occupational 
health and industrial hygiene efforts. We continue to 
target  ergonomics, as well as slips, trips and falls—two 
of the primary sources of injury at the company.
Focusing on high-hazard sources, we analyze our most 
severe historical incidents with a cross-functional team 
to identify root-cause trends, formulate mitigation 
strategies and share knowledge across the organization. 
We hold “stand down” meetings as a forum for 
operational leaders to engage employees in frontline 
education concerning specific risks. During these 
meetings, all other operational activity stops so employees 
can focus on an emerging trend or specific risk.We are also integrating health and safety considerations 
throughout Baxter’s product quality system so that 
safety becomes even more central to our core business 
operations.
Improving Ergonomics for 
Baxter Product Delivery Drivers 
In 2021, we conducted a pilot program to evaluate 
ergonomic techniques used by drivers who deliver 
Baxter renal products to patients’ homes. Through 
this program we captured video of the drivers 
performing various delivery tasks and then used 
artificial intelligence to identify the detailed body 
mechanics required for those tasks. We evaluated 
eight tasks, comparing different techniques 
to determine best practices and potential 
opportunities to improve ergonomics and help 
avoid injuries. These will provide the basis for 
future coaching and training of drivers.  BAXTER’S VISION FOR WORKPLACE SAFETY
Zero
Harm
Digitize
Culture
ImproveEliminate Major and 
High-Frequency Injuries
Leverage Predictive 
Analytics Broadly
Engage and 
Empower
Drive Continuous 
Improvement
Champion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance 
on the content in this section.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  40Champion Our People 
and Communities
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Injuries and Illnesses3
In 2021, Baxter’s total recordable incident rate 
fell by 20% compared with 2020. Our ongoing 
work to drive continuous improvement, raise 
awareness about common injuries sustained by 
employees and engage operational leaders in 
efforts to reduce injury and illness are helping 
to improve our workplace safety performance. 
Four major incidents4 occurred at Baxter in 
2021, compared with 12 the prior year.
See the Baxter Data Summary for workplace 
safety data by region and major incidents.Baxter’s occupational health function, in partnership 
with Human Resources and Global Communications, 
develops health and wellness strategies for the 
company to help our employees take care of their 
personal well-being. A global team of diverse health 
professionals and volunteers, known as Local 
Champions, helps refine and implement these 
approaches and set priorities.
Through BeWell@Baxter, our global employee 
health and wellness program, we promote healthy 
lifestyles. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
we transitioned BeWell@Baxter campaigns to virtual 
sessions or activities and launched Monthly Wellness 
Days to emphasize the importance of physical, mental 
and social well-being. In 2021, these programs 
MOVING FORWARD  >>
As we look ahead, we will continue to prioritize a 
zero-harm workplace in an effort to drive down 
injuries. In future years, we expect to enhance 
our approach with digital solutions and data 
analytics to develop risk profiles and identify 
leading indicators for prioritization. We will also 
continue to engage our employees with real-time 
coaching about safe work practices and empower 
them to take charge of safety in the workplace. 
Finally, we will drive continuing improvement 
through standardized global training, safety 
engineering for equipment and mentoring activities.focused on total well-being and included topics 
such as mental health, stress management, 
career wellness, environmental wellness and the 
importance of laughter.   
For BeWell@Baxter programs in 2021, 30% of 
employees participated in the Exercise Challenge 
and 32% had completed a Personal Wellness 
Profile.2 In addition, 92% of facilities worldwide 
took part in Healthy Eating Month.
Baxter’s occupational health team also delivered 
the following in 2021:
• Flu vaccinations: We offered free seasonal flu 
vaccinations to employees working at most  sites 
with 25 or more employees. More than 12,000 
BAXTER TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE, 2019-2021 * ADDITIONAL WORKPLACE SAFETY DATA, 2019-2021*
* Rates include COVID-19 cases. Public health guidance varies around the world 
concerning isolation and quarantine days for COVID-19. Probable work-related 
COVID-19 cases average 10 days lost per CDC guidance and account for days away 
from work due to the illness.employees worldwide received vaccinations 
through this program.
• COVID-19 vaccinations: To support Baxter’s 
response to the global pandemic, we 
provided onsite vaccinations, consistent 
with applicable regulations, in several 
locations around the world where the 
vaccine was readily available and allowed by 
local government authorities.
• Smoke-free workplaces: In countries where 
smoke-free status is allowed by law, 100% 
of campuses with 25 or more employees 
were smoke-free.
 
Total Recordable  0.40 0.41 0.33
Incident Rate0.00.10.20.30.40.5
2019              2020              2021 
Cases with Days Lost Rate   0.090 0.174 0.116
Days Lost Rate 2.14 4.80 4.15
Restricted Days Rate ** 7.83 4.83 3.890.01.02.03.04.05.06.07.08.09.010.0
2019              2020              2021
Health and Wellness Program Management and Initiatives
Rates include COVID-19 cases. Public health guidance varies around the world 
concerning isolation and quarantine days for COVID-19. Probable work-related 
COVID-19 cases average 10 days lost per CDC guidance and account for days  
away from work due to the illness.   
Restricted Days Rate data for 2020 was updated following publication of our 2020 
Corporate Responsibility Report due to updates beyond that year’s reporting period.     ***Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  41Champion Our People 
and Communities
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Increase Representation of Women and Ethnic Minorities in Leadership Roles 
2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Through hiring, promotion and retention, 
aspire to increase representation of women in leadership roles globally to 40%.*
2030 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOAL :   Through hiring, promotion and retention, aspire 
to increase representation of ethnic minorities in leadership roles in the United States to 25% .*
*Assuming labor market conditions continue to support the goal. Leadership role is defined as director and above.  
   (See endnotes 1 and 2 for additional detail.)PERFORMANCE:   As of Dec. 31, 2021, 36% of people in leadership roles at Baxter 
globally were women, up from 34% in 2020.
PERFORMANCE:   As of Dec. 31, 2021, 24% of people in leadership roles at Baxter 
in the United States were ethnic minorities, up from 22% in 2020.
*Compared with 2020. 
APPROACH AND PROGRESS
One critical way Baxter supports diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DE&I) at our company is through a holistic and 
comprehensive analysis of internal diversity metrics. We 
track the representation of women globally and under -
represented minorities in the United States at every 
career level across the employee life cycle from hiring 
through exit. We include this data in quarterly dash -
boards that Baxter leaders review to understand the 
company’s progress and identify potential opportunities 
to help further advance diversity across the organization.
Baxter has reported employee ethnic and gender 
diversity data in our corporate responsibility report 
for more than two decades, with increasing detail 
over time. For the last several years, we have also 
reported aspirational diversity representation goals 
based on leading industry benchmarks. In 2021, we 
relied on a data-driven approach to help us establish appropriate goals for our company by engaging a third 
party to conduct rigorous labor market and internal 
availability analyses.
While all forms of diversity at every career level are 
important to Baxter, our current goals focus on women 
(globally) and ethnic minorities (United States) in lead-
ership roles.1,2  We focus on these two areas because we 
believe they provide the greatest opportunities for us to 
drive meaningful change. We have robust, multiyear data 
sets in these areas, as well as mechanisms to continue 
gathering and verifying data moving forward.  See the 
Baxter Data Summary for additional diversity data.
We aim to achieve our diversity goals by continuing our 
efforts to attract, retain and develop diverse talent and 
foster an inclusive workplace. We will further develop 
our detailed plans to help achieve these goals in 2022 
and will continue to report progress annually.While our aspirational diversity goals are a priority for 
Baxter, we are equally focused on advancing an inclusive 
culture where all people feel they belong and can be 
their authentic selves. We have metrics and reporting in 
place to assess and share how we are doing in this area 
(e.g., our Best Place to Work survey data). This ongoing 
measurement and assessment provides essential input 
that is critical to advancing our DE&I strategy. 
Learn more about how we drive diversity in leadership 
and across all levels of the company.
MOVING FORWARD  >>
We plan to evaluate and refine our goals as needed after 
periodic assessments of labor market data compared 
with our workforce data and will report any directional 
changes in future reports. 2 percentage points  
women in leadership roles (globally)*  2 percentage points  
ethnic minorities in leadership roles (United States)*  Champion Our People 
and CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  42Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
Ethics and Compliance  .......4 3
Human Rights  ...............4 5
Diversity, Equity and  
Inclusion  ....................4 6
Privacy and Data Protection  ...5 1Our 2030 Corporate 
Responsibility 
Commitment and 
Goals are bolstered 
by our approach to 
good governance and 
responsible business 
practices. 
Cross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  43Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
Ethics and Compliance 
Third Party Program policy training  
offered in 18 languages             ~97%  of employees 
completed annual Code of 
Conduct training Performed 24 
compliance audits for 
distributors globally
At Baxter, we work to drive a culture of integrity and 
the highest ethical behavior. We prioritize following 
legal requirements, being honest and fair, keeping 
promises, encouraging questions and valuing 
discussion—always reinforcing the importance of 
personal accountability and integrity. Patients, 
doctors, customers, regulators, investors, communi-
ties and our employees count on it.
COMPANYWIDE ACCOUNTABILITY
Baxter has compliance committees for each country 
or cluster of countries where we operate to further 
integrate ethics and compliance in strategic plans 
and day-to-day activities. To help ensure the local 
implementation of our global ethics and compliance 
program, the business lead of each country or cluster 
holds mandatory quarterly meetings to facilitate 
discussion among local leadership about key issues, 
challenges and risks in their area. This approach, in 
conjunction with enterprise-wide established codes, 
policies, trainings and monitoring and assessment 
practices, enables us to more effectively target 
specific needs and drive ownership of and responsi-
bility for ethics and compliance worldwide.Continuous 
Improvement of 
the Ethics and 
Compliance ProgramEthics and
Compliance
Helpline and
InvestigationsAsssessments
and 
AuditsMonitoring
and 
Data AnalyticsPROACTIVE:    Design > Implement > Guide
Third 
Party 
Due 
Diligence
Training 
and
CommunicationGovernance 
and 
LeadershipPolicies 
and
Procedures
REACTIVE:    Detect > Prevent > Learn
Relevant Policies and Standards
 `Baxter Code of Conduct 
 `Baxter Global Third Party Anticorruption 
Policy
 `Baxter Global Interactions Policy
 `AdvaMed Code of Ethics
 `MedTech Europe Code of Ethical Business 
PracticeETHICS AND COMPLIANCE TRAINING
All employees are required to complete Code of 
Conduct training annually. In 2021, approximately 97% 
of employees completed the training. In addition to 
this training, we conducted an employee engagement 
campaign to reinforce the importance of ethics and 
compliance. More than 17,000 email-enabled employ -
ees received a questionnaire, asking them to indicate 
whether they had read and agreed to comply with the 
Baxter Code of Conduct and to affirm that they were 
aware of their responsibility to report any violations. 
Of those who received the questionnaire, more than 
98% affirmed  their commitment to these items. We 
developed a related communication campaign to reach 
those who did not receive the formal questionnaire.1  
Select employees also complete ethics and compliance  
online courses relevant to their jobs every other year 
on a rotational basis. These courses cover topics 
addressed in Baxter’s Global Interactions Policy and 
Third Party Program. 
Training for our Third Party Program policy is avail -
able in 18 languages. In 2021, 10,300 employees took 
this training. We also offer training to all third parties through our due diligence processing tool. In 2021, 
we updated the training for third parties to reflect 
changes in our Global Interactions Policy. 
In addition to the anticorruption content covered by the  
Code of Conduct and Global Interactions Policy training, 
our sales force participates in business-led, interactive 
workshops/trainings related to ethical interactions 
with the medical community and government officials, 
including discussion of real-life scenarios. At Baxter, 
off-label promotion is strictly prohibited by policy. 
This prohibition is included in our annual training to 
the Sales organization. DRIVING A CULTURE OF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
Cross-Cutting 
CommitmentsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendixBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  44Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
THIRD PARTY PROGRAM
Our Third Party Program policy outlines the standards  
and processes used to review, retain and monitor 
new and existing third parties for compliance with 
our anticorruption expectations. The program 
and policy apply to Baxter employees, officers 
and directors involved in the review, retention and 
monitoring of third parties. 
In 2021, we launched an Annual Certification Ques-
tionnaire to all existing third parties to help assure 
that our third-party partners continue to comply with 
the terms of their agreements with Baxter and with 
all applicable laws, rules and regulations.
COMPLIANCE ASSESSMENTS 
Baxter completes risk-based compliance 
assessments and audits each year, which cover 
antibribery, anticorruption and trade compliance, 
among other topics. Our Global Ethics and 
Compliance function selects locations to audit and 
assess based on factors such as business complexity, 
size, risk of corruption, the nature of interactions 
with the medical community and third parties, 
enforcement trends and the results of compliance 
monitoring and investigations. Compliance 
assessments and audits also focus on relationships 
with third parties that represent the company to 
customers, including the medical community, 
patients and government officials and entities.
In 2021, we conducted two compliance assessments 
using Global Audit and Ethics and Compliance 
resources: one in our Europe, Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA) region and one in Latin America. These 
assessments were performed remotely as a result 
of COVID-19. We also performed remote compliance audits of 24 
distributors globally in 2021. The audits covered eight 
distributors in EMEA, seven in Latin America and nine 
in Asia Pacific.
Additionally, Baxter worked with external consultants 
to perform a legal risk assessment of the company’s 
Trade Compliance and Anti-Trust programs. We are using  
the findings from these exercises to further enhance  
and mature our program policies and operations.
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
Baxter has deployed a data analytics–based 
monitoring system. The tool is used to perform review 
of compliance risk metrics, as well as facilitates 
forensic monitoring procedures in eight countries, 
including Brazil, China, Italy and Vietnam, among 
others. The countries are selected on the basis of 
their past monitoring and assessment results, 
feedback from Ethics and Compliance Assessments, 
country compliance environment and taking into 
account past investigations, if any. This system 
enables us to perform near-real-time monitoring of 
metrics related to travel, entertainment, interactions 
with healthcare professionals and government 
officials and corruption-related due diligence for 
certain in-scope third parties. Transactions identified 
as potentially problematic are reviewed by the Ethics 
and Compliance Investigations team as appropriate. 
RELATIONSHIPS WITH HEALTHCARE 
PROFESSIONALS AND GOVERNMENT 
OFFICIALS
Baxter is committed to transparent reporting about 
relationships with the medical community and 
government officials. This includes the continued implemen tation of anticorruption programs to help 
ensure that these relationships and the related fair 
market value payments are for necessary and genuine 
services. Our Global Interactions Policy defines the 
principles and rules governing our interactions with 
government officials and members of the medical 
community. In 2021, we released an update to the policy 
related to virtual interactions and related controls. 
The Global Interactions Policy also provides guidance 
for corporate charitable giving to help ensure compli -
ance with the law and with Baxter policy. We have 
local Contributions Management Committees in 
select countries, clusters of countries or regions. 
Where they exist, those local committees have 
decision-making authority for charitable contribution 
requests from nonprofit and for-profit healthcare and 
patient organizations. The Baxter International 
Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Baxter Interna -
tional Inc., is a separate legal entity governed by its own Board of Directors and distinct grantmaking 
guidelines that govern its charitable contributions to 
nonprofit organizations.
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE 
In 2021, Baxter logged 634 reports from 33 countries 
into our Ethics and Compliance Helpline system and 
closed 638 cases that were received through 2021.2  All 
reports received during the year involving allegations 
of misconduct were promptly triaged for investigation . 
For the substantiated cases closed in 2021, appropriate  
remediation (e.g., training or adoption of new or 
changed processes) was or is being implemented 
where warranted. In substantiated cases involving 
employee misconduct, employees received appropri -
ate disciplinary action based on the nature of the 
misconduct and other relevant factors. Disciplinary 
action can include a range of outcomes, including 
coaching and training, verbal or written warnings, 
compensation reduction or termination.
ITEMS REPORTED TO THE ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE IN 2021*
* “HCPs” are healthcare professionals. “HCOs” are healthcare organizations. Puerto Rico is counted as part of the United States.Work Environment/Employee Relations 63%
Manufacturing/EHS&S/R&D/Regulatory/Quality 13%
Conﬂict of Interest  8%
Interactions with Government Oﬃcials Including HCPs/HCOs (outside the United States)  5%
Asset or Information Misuse or Misappropriation/Conﬁdential Data 4%
Financial Management and Reporting  3%
Marketing and Sales 3%
Competitive Practices 1%
Payments/Gifts/Entertainment with HCPs/HCOs (United States)  <1%CATEGORY % OF TOTAL*Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  45Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
Human Rights 
Relevant Policies and Standards
 `Global Human Rights Policy
 `California Transparency in Supply Chains 
Act of 2010 statement 
 `Conflict Minerals Position Statement
 `Baxter Code of ConductHuman rights are foundational to Baxter’s corporate  
responsibility strategy. Baxter has policies and pro -
cesses in place to help protect human rights across 
our value chain, including the rights of our suppli -
ers’ workers, our employees, our customers and 
the patients who rely on our products. As outlined 
in our Global Human Rights Policy , we respect the 
human rights, dignity and diverse contributions of 
all individuals. 
Fostering human rights takes many forms at Baxter 
and is reflected in our policies and initiatives in areas 
including workplace inclusion; employee safety ; 
supply chain labor practices (see below); ethical  
conduct; access to healthcare; and patient, employee 
and customer privacy . Also see information about our 
actions in 2021 related to COVID-19 and racial justice.
PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN OUR 
SUPPLY CHAIN
Baxter’s suppliers must commit to respecting human 
rights, either in accordance with our Global Human 
Rights Policy or under their own similar policies. 
Any suppliers who register with Baxter through our 
supplier registration portal must read our Global 
Human Rights Policy and the Baxter Code of Conduct and indicate whether they agree with the commitments 
therein. To better understand our suppliers’ corporate 
responsibility programs and performance, including  
related to labor and human rights, we conduct an  
annual Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey .
Baxter adheres to supply chain transparency require-
ments where applicable, through publicly available 
statements. In addition to our Global Human Rights 
Policy, Baxter’s UK Modern Slavery Statement declares 
our commitments and approach to help ensure that our 
local operations and global supply chain are free from 
modern slavery practices, including child labor, forced 
and bonded labor, and human trafficking. In 2021,  
Baxter Australia published its first Modern Slavery 
Statement as well. We also have position statements 
related to the California Transparency in Supply Chains 
Act of 2010 and conflict minerals, and we publish an 
annual Conflict Minerals Report.
Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance  
on the content in this Protecting Human Rights  
in Our Supply Chain section.
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendixCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  46Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
  *Scores indicate the percentage of Best Place to Work survey participants who responded favorably to statements related to inclusion.  **Spending with suppliers that certify for multiple categories is included in the total for each category. United States and Puerto Rico. 
Baxter’s approximately 60,000 employees1 include people  
of different races, ethnicities, genders, orientations, 
abilities, backgrounds and beliefs from many different  
countries and cultures. We embrace this diversity,  
enhancing our company’s culture of belonging and  
embedding diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) across 
all aspects of our business,  including for our employees   
and prospective employees, the communities we support  globally through strategic investments, our suppliers, 
and our customers and patients. We focus on four 
strategic pillars to guide our commitment worldwide 
(see graphic). 
WORKFORCE
Increasing the diversity of our workforce improves the 
way we think and innovate and makes us more agile 
as a company. Diversity in Leadership
Advancing a diverse workforce begins at the top. We 
aim to have our company leadership reflect the diver -
sity of our organization and the communities where 
we operate. This begins with our Board of Directors 
(Board) and leadership teams, which help influence 
and inspire our desired culture and drive greater 
representation at other levels in the organization. See 
the Baxter Data Summary and our 2020 Employment 
Information Report (EEO-1) and 2021 EEO-1 Report  for 
workforce diversity data. 
Board Diversity
Baxter’s Board is committed to achieving a diverse 
and broadly inclusive membership. As a result, and 
consistent with our Corporate Governance Guidelines 
and the charter of the Nominating, Corporate 
Governance & Public Policy Committee, diversity of 
background, gender, race, ethnicity, country of origin, 
age and experience are relevant factors in the selection 
process. Additionally, the Board looks to create a diverse 
candidate pool when searching for new directors.  Of the eight directors most recently appointed to 
Baxter’s Board, five are women or are ethnically or 
racially diverse. The Board believes that having 
diverse directors with varying perspectives and a 
breadth of experience will positively contribute to 
robust discussion and help guide Baxter’s strategy 
and long-term value creation. 
The Board conducts an annual assessment of itself 
and its committees to help identify potential gaps or 
areas to augment in light of the company’s strategies, 
including by taking into account the overall diversity 
of the Board.
Approximately 31% of our Board is composed of 
female directors and approximately 23% of our 
Board is ethnically/racially diverse.2 These percent -
ages are scheduled to increase to approximately 
33% and to 25%, respectively, on June 30, 2022, in 
connection with Peter Hellman’s retirement. See 
information regarding Board diversity beginning on 
page 6 of  Baxter’s 2022 Proxy Statement  (Baxte r 
2022 Proxy Statement Amendment ). Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
GLOBAL DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION STRATEGIC PILLARS
Workforce Workplace Communities Marketplace
Attract and build 
diverse and 
high-performing 
teams that 
are engaged and 
innovative. Advance our inclusive 
culture, where every 
employee is treated 
fairly and feels 
respected, valued, 
seen and heard.Make a meaningful 
difference by cultivating 
strategic and diverse 
partnerships in 
Baxter’s communities 
worldwide.Ensure the diverse 
needs of our patients 
and customers 
are considered in 
all aspects of our 
business.$72.6 million in spending with minority-owned businesses** 
$90.3 million in spending with women-owned businesses**
77% overall inclusion score,  
up from 69% in 2019*Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendixCross-Cutting 
CommitmentsBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  47Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
Inclusive Talent Strategy 
Workforce Diversity Reviews
We prioritize attracting, developing and engaging a 
diverse workforce. In 2021, to drive more rigor in this 
area, we embedded Workforce Diversity Reviews in our 
talent strategy discussions with company leaders  
globally. These reviews enable discussions about our 
organization’s diversity data and metrics, specifically 
related to underrepresented groups.3  Our aim for these 
reviews is to ensure that underrepresented employees 
are not overlooked for development, sponsorshi p, 
succession, advancement and retention opportunities. Aspirational Leadership 
Diversity Goals
To drive more accountability and intention to 
advance and sustain our leadership diversity, we 
have established aspirational goals, as part of our 
2030 Corporate Responsibility Commitment and 
Goals, to increase the representation of women 
(globally) and ethnic minorities (United States) in 
leadership roles. We will provide updates on our 
progress annually in this corporate responsibly 
report. Learn more in Increase Representation of 
Women and Ethnic Minorities in Leadership Roles. Sponsorship and Mentorship
Baxter’s sponsorship and mentorship programs 
help drive engagement, retention and career 
advancement for women and underrepresented 
groups. Our mentoring opportunities, resources and 
tools are for all employees, including entry level, 
middle management and ethnically diverse em -
ployee populations. These mentoring relationships 
may include traditional, peer or reverse mentoring, 
as well as mentoring circles conducted in a group 
setting. All employees can participate in mentorship 
as part of their development plan at any given point 
of the year. Employees can identify mentors and/
or managers can recommend mentorship based on 
their employees’ development needs.
Baxter’s eight Business Resource Groups (BRGs) 
also offer a global mentoring program specifically 
designed to connect their diverse membership 
with leaders at the company. These mentoring 
relationships provide development and coaching 
opportunities for employees from a variety of  ethnic 
backgrounds, genders, sexual orientations and 
generations, as well as veterans and those with 
disabilities. 
Leadership Development 
We partner with external organizations to offer lead-
ership development programs that support women 
and underrepresented ethnic minorities, including: 
• Black Leadership Academy (McKinsey): This 
leadership program helps high-potential Black 
employees to reflect on and plan for professional 
and personal aspirations to accelerate career 
progression.• Courageous Conversations about Race  
(Pacific Education Group):  This program, piloted 
with a cohort of Baxter leaders in 2021, helps 
build critical skills for having challenging  
conversations with a strong focus on racial equity 
and race relationships.  
• HBA Ambassador Program (Healthcare   
Businesswomen’s Association): This program 
helps women set and reach professional  
development goals, facilitated by senior leaders 
within the company and guidance from a network 
of HBA advisors.  
• Monthly Global People Manager Meetings:  
These live virtual events, led by the CEO, focus on 
culture transformation efforts. In 2021, three of 
the events explored DE&I by welcoming external  
experts along with members of the Baxter com -
munity to engage in courageous conversations 
about DE&I.
Relevant Policies and Standards
 `Statement of Equal Opportunity 
 `Equal Opportunity Employment Policy 
(internal)
 `Non-Discrimination Policy (within our 
Global Human Rights Policy )
Photo: Baxter employees participate in event for International Women’s Day.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  48Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
Global Inclusion Council (GIC)
Baxter’s GIC members serve as DE&I champions, 
advocates and thought leaders across the company. 
The GIC’s mission is to focus on the advancement 
of women and underrepresented groups (including 
people of different races/ethnicities, generations and 
sexual orientations as well as veterans and people 
with disabilities) and to drive inclusive leadership 
capabilities and culture. The GIC is responsible for 
advocating and driving our global DE&I priorities, as 
well as developing and implementing local inclusion 
priorities. 
In early 2021, we formally embedded the GIC into 
Baxter’s executive leadership structure. The GIC 
consists of members of our Executive Leadership 
Team and the executive sponsors of our BRGs. 
This change reinforces the importance of DE&I at 
the highest levels of our company and will help 
further align the activities of our GIC with those of 
our BRGs.
Business Resource Groups
Baxter’s BRGs are an important component of cre -
ating an inclusive and diverse culture within Baxter 
and advancing our priorities in the communities 
where we operate. These employee-run affinity 
groups play a critical role in the company’s efforts 
to recruit, retain and engage employees, and they 
provide forums for employees to develop skills, 
experience valuable cultural connections and sup-
port key business initiatives. The BRGs support our 
business goals and aim to enhance personal growth 
and multicultural understanding, while strength -
ening relationships among employ ees,  customers, business partners and community partners. Our BRGs 
have positively impacted employee benefits, policies, 
holiday/time off approaches, accessible technology, 
racial justice efforts and workplace flexibility.
We have eight established BRGs and encourage 
all employees to get involved. As of 2022, those 
BRGs include: Alliance for Baxter Women, Asian 
Leadership Network, BaxVET, Black Professional 
Alliance, Early Career Professionals, enABLES, 
HOLA and PRIDE.
ACT: Activating Change Today Council 
In 2020, Baxter established our ACT Council to 
advance racial justice globally at Baxter. This council, 
chaired by the CEO and composed of employees at 
various levels, was established to drive meaningful, 
sustainable change and address racial injustice 
within the workplace and in the communities and 
markets we serve. 
While the ACT Council and initiative were prompted 
by the murder of George Floyd in the United States, 
our intent is to address racial/ethnic injustice around 
the world. Learn more. Measuring Inclusive Leadership  
Beginning in 2021, the individual performance 
assessment for members of our Senior Leadership 
Team (now our Executive Leadership Team) under 
our Annual Incentive Plan is determined in 
connection with an assessment of our performance 
against pre-established measures for key strategic 
2021 priorities, which include various ESG issues. 
The strategic 2021 priorities are included in the 
categories of Patient Safety and Quality (50% 
weighting), Best Place to Work (30% weighting) 
and Growth Through Innovation (20% weighting). 
Following a rigorous qualitative year-end 
performance assessment, the weighted total payout 
across the three categories for 2021 totaled 105%.
In addition, we conduct surveys to measure 
manager effectiveness, asking employees to rate 
their managers in areas such as inclusive leader -
ship, recognition, feedback, development and 
workplace flexibility. Managers receive scorecards 
that include the results, as well as summaries of 
anonymous feedback from employees, and are 
expected to address feedback.Inclusive Attraction Approach
Baxter follows a fair and inclusive hiring process, 
which includes an inclusive candidate sourcing 
strategy, diverse interview panels and a target 
to ensure that at least 30% of candidates on the 
interview slates for roles of manager or above 
are diverse. We have initiated additional steps to 
mitigate bias in hiring, including analysis of job 
descriptions by artificial intelligence to help make 
them more inclusive, an automated process to 
collect interview feedback, guidance for valuing 
differences when assessing skills and an inclusive 
global interview guide. We also include a specific 
bias check in our hiring process referred to as “Pause 
and Discuss,” which is a structured discussion to help 
check for unconscious bias in candidate selection 
before moving forward with an offer.  
WORKPLACE
In addition to prioritizing diversity in our workforce, 
Baxter cultivates an inclusive workplace culture,  
where every employee is treated fairly and feels  
respected, valued, seen and heard.
Driving Accountability
We work to embed DE&I across all aspects of our 
workplace through inclusive leadership, accountability 
measures and proactive engagement with employees 
who advocate for inclusion throughout our company. 
Our global DE&I champions are integral to the 
implementation of our strategy. Especially critical are 
our Global Inclusion Council, Regional Inclusion 
Councils, country champion networks and senior 
leader sponsorship of our eight BRGs. We believe that all employees are 
personally responsible for fostering 
DE&I at Baxter. To that end, we ask all 
employees to periodically recommit 
to our global All In[clusive] pledge, 
affirming that they will do their part 
to create a culture of inclusion based 
on fairness and open and honest 
communication.
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  49Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
Building Cultural Competence to Advance 
Workplace Inclusion
Baxter provides employees with training, tools and 
resources to build cultural awareness and compe -
tence to engage more authentically with each other. 
Resources include leadership toolkits for managing 
global, diverse teams; holding inclusive meetings; 
personalized cultural assessments; exploring 
dimensions of diversity as a team; and mitigating 
day-to-day biases across many of our human 
resources processes. Many employees also work 
on global teams, enabling them to build cultural 
competence through daily interactions, and we 
encourage employees to practice simple acts of 
inclusion in their day-to-day routines.We work to embed awareness of unconscious bias 
throughout our company and require all employees 
to take a self-guided e-learning module about uncon -
scious bias. In addition, we have integrated prompts 
in key human resources processes, such as hiring 
activities, talent assessment, succession planning and 
feedback, to help employees think about their biases 
as they undertake these activities.
Inclusive Pay and Benefits
One of the ways we work to achieve equity at Baxter is 
by implementing a total compensation philosophy that 
provides market-competitive pay and benefits globally 
while rewarding employees for strong individual and 
business performance. Baxter is also committed to periodically assessing our efforts through robust pay 
audits and reviews. 
After controlling for legitimate factors such as 
type of role, prior work experience, tenure in the 
organization, tenure in role and geographic location, 
a review of our 2021 pay equity study of U.S. salaried 
workforce revealed no significant pay differences 
among men, women and ethnic minorities. In addition, 
approximately 35% of our employees work in positions 
(largely in our plant locations) where salary levels 
are based solely on the job or the job and tenure, 
eliminating the possibility of pay equity discrepancies.
Baxter provides competitive and inclusive employee 
programs and benefits that support career advancement,  workplace f lexibility and employee wellness.  To 
support working parents and caregivers, we also offer 
parental leave, adoption and fertility benefits, mento-
ring for new parents, lactation services and benefits, 
backup childcare and subsidized care, educational 
support for working parents, caregiver services and 
an employee assistance program. 
Throughout the global pandemic, we have worked to 
help employees cope with the impacts of COVID-19. 
For example, Baxter provides resources to help 
employees prioritize wellness and work-life balance 
as well as tips for using Baxter’s technology to stay 
connected and productive. Our WorkSmart Virtually 
resources help employees cultivate habits to work 
remotely with ease, connect with co-workers, build 
team effectiveness and lead through crisis with 
empathy and emotional intelligence. We also rolled 
out a meditation app globally to help our employees 
prioritize mental health and well-being during this 
stressful time and introduced monthly wellness days 
and nutritional coaching for U.S.-based employees.
For many years, Baxter has recognized the increasing 
demands on employees to manage their personal 
and work lives, and we respect the need for different 
approaches to where, how and when work gets done. 
We provide employees and managers with tools and 
resources to navigate ad hoc or ongoing flexible 
arrangements and encourage employees to speak 
with managers about what options might be right for 
them and their jobs. Learn more about workplace 
flexibility at Baxter.
Learn more about employee compensation and  
benefits and executive compensation.  
Diverse perspectives are valued at Baxter 60% 63% 75% 72%
My direct manager does a good job of managing    
people from diverse backgrounds 70% 72% 80% 78%
I am comfortable voicing my ideas and opinions,   
even if they are different from others 64% 68% 76% 75%
My direct manager cares about me as a person 71% 74% 78% 78%
Overall Inclusion Score  66% 69% 77% 75%BAXTER ** GLOBAL
2018 2019 2021 2021
average***Baxter conducts Best Place to Work surveys, through which our employees rate Baxter’s workplace across various categories, 
including for factors related to inclusion. Our overall inclusion score for 2021 increased 8 percentage points compared with the 
last time we conducted the survey, in 2019, and 11 percentage points compared with 2018. Individual metrics within the inclusion 
category also showed improvement. (See Baxter Data Summary for Best Place to Work survey results in additional categories.)MEASURING WORKPLACE INCLUSION *
    * Scores indicate the percentage of survey participants who responded favorably to statements related to each of the categories listed.
  ** Baxter did not administer a Best Place to Work survey in 2020 due to impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
*** Data are from Qualtrics Benchmark Database and represent more than 750 companies (including Baxter) and more than 20 million responses.   
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  50Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
COMMUNITIES
Baxter works to advance racial justice and equity in our 
communities by driving advocacy efforts in partnership 
with community organizations and increasing our spend 
with minority business enterprises in our supply chain. 
Supporting Underserved Communities
Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation have 
committed to invest $275 million in underserved 
communities over the next 10 years to address global 
health and social challenges, such as increasing access 
to healthcare, fostering STEM (science, technology, 
engineering and math) education, and promoting 
community resilience. Aligned with our ACT initiative, 
we have provided grants to the American Diabetes 
Association  and the Thurgood Marshall Fund . Learn 
more in Invest in Underserved Communities Globally .  
In addition, Baxter is currently partnering with 
several organizations focused on advancing public 
policy options related to health disparities. Baxter 
has a longstanding relationship supporting the 
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. Baxter is 
also partnering with the National Minority Quality 
Forum and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus 
Institute to bring more focus to the role that payment 
and reimbursement can play in achieving better health 
outcomes for communities of color.   
Supplier Diversity
Baxter develops mutually beneficial relationships with 
small and diverse suppliers as we strive to increase 
the diversity of our supplier base. In 2021, we increased  
our spend with diverse suppliers to 7.3%, up from 5.6%.  This included increased spending in all diverse supplier 
categories except for veteran-owned businesses and 
small disadvantaged businesses.
A third-party review estimates that our spending with 
diverse suppliers supported $257 million in economic 
output as well as $72 million in employee income 
earned and almost 1,200 jobs. The same review 
showed that when including estimated indirect and 
induced economic impacts, our spending supported 
$436 million in economic output as well as about 
$140 million in employee income and more than 
2,400 jobs.4 
We continue to emphasize a strategic approach to 
increasing spend and deepening relationships with 
diverse suppliers. In 2021, we sponsored an annual 
National Minority Supplier Development Council $189.7
million
to small 
businesses$72.6
million
to minority-owned 
businesses
$6.0
million
to veteran-owned 
businesses
$2.6
million
to HUBZone-certified 
businesses$3.5
million
to service-disabled
veteran–owned businesses$90.3
million
to women-owned 
businesses
$2.3
million
to small 
disadvantaged
businesses$SPENDING WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS, 2021 *
* Spending with suppliers that certify for multiple categories is included in the total 
for each category. United States and Puerto Rico.(NMSDC) matchmaking event and participated in 
matchmaking events through the Diversity Alliance 
For Science in the areas of research and development, 
professional services and packaging. 
In 2021, we established a target for our top 50 suppliers 
to increase diversity among their suppliers and report 
results. During the year, we also committed $150,000 to 
support minority-owned businesses impacted by 
COVID-19 and civil unrest, and we invested $100,000 to 
provide professional development, learning and 
training opportunities to Black women.
We maintain corporate memberships with many 
organizations that promote and certify diverse 
suppliers, such as Disability:IN, National Gay and 
Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC), NMSDC, 
Chicago NMSDC, Puerto Rico Minority Supplier 
Development Council and Women’s Business 
Enterprise National Council. In 2021, in addition to 
taking part in the NMSDC matchmaking event, we 
participated in meetings led by NMSDC with the 
NGLCC and Disability:IN, enabling us to build 
stronger relationships with these organizations and 
increase matchmaking opportunities. Fostering 
relationships with a variety of organizations helps us 
identify diverse suppliers for inclusion in our supply 
chain, increase our visibility within the diverse 
supplier community and advance progress in this 
area more broadly.
In 2021, we continued to realign our procurement or -
ganization to improve collaboration with our company’s 
functions and global business units. This improves our 
ability to initiate matchmaking with diverse suppliers  of 
specific categories. This approach will help us identify 
opportunities for and potentially increase our spend 
with diverse suppliers moving forward.Our supplier registration portal enables registration for 
diverse suppliers who are looking for opportunities to 
work with Baxter. Using the portal, diverse suppliers 
can upload their certificates and answer questions that 
will make them more visible to Baxter teams looking 
for new suppliers through our internal search tool. The 
portal should also improve communications with our 
suppliers and help us gather more information related 
to spending with our Tier II suppliers so we can track 
and measure it more accurately. 
Learn more about supplier diversity at Baxter.
MARKETPLACE 
Increasing our awareness of health disparities in 
underserved communities and extending access to 
and use of our products, therapies and resources 
to these groups is at the core of our marketplace 
inclusion efforts.  
We strive to adopt inclusive product design from 
concept to launch and enhance our engagement with 
diverse healthcare professionals, patients, caregivers 
and other stakeholders. Our efforts to tackle these 
health disparities include sponsoring community 
programs that improve patient access to healthcare 
and reducing healthcare provider biases, including 
promoting a more diverse pipeline of healthcare 
professionals. We provided educational events for 
employees worldwide to enhance multicultural 
awareness and increase awareness of healthcare 
disparities and equity in product design, development 
and commercialization. The objective was to ensure 
diverse representation of patients and healthcare 
professionals among our key opinion leaders and voice 
of customer stakeholders. 
Learn more about our marketplace DE&I  initiatives 
within ACT.Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance on 
the content in this Supplier Diversity section.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  51Cross-Cutting 
Commitments
Corporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendix
Relevant Policies and Standards
 `Global Privacy Policy (internal):  
Defines our privacy standards and guides 
our global operations to follow consistent 
controls for protecting personal 
information
 `Global Privacy Policy (external): 
Describes how we may collect and use 
the information of customers and others 
with whom we interact 
 `Digital Security Policy (internal):  
Outlines our approach to information 
security and the standards we require 
employees and suppliers to followBaxter is committed to respecting the privacy of our 
employees, patients and customers and protecting 
the security of our infrastructure and products. This 
commitment is reinforced through executive oversight,  
policies and standards, and mandatory employee training.  
We monitor global regulations closely, including 
relevant developments and actions related to the 
EU General Data Protection Regulation, recently 
introduced laws in China related to privacy and data 
protection, and other requirements in the places we do 
business. In addition to external regulations, we hold 
ourselves accountable to our own rigorous internal 
policies and standards. 
Management and oversight of Privacy and IT security 
is a priority for Baxter leadership. Our Information 
Risk Committee, co-led by our Chief Privacy Officer 
and our Chief Information Security Officer, ensures 
Baxter’s privacy and security efforts are aligned 
with the company’s broader business initiatives and 
that our business leaders are aware of changing 
regulatory or technical risks. In addition, two separate 
committees of our Board of Directors oversee our IT 
security program strategy and efficacy and receive 
regular updates. The Audit Committee provides 
oversight for IT security matters generally (including 
cybersecurity incidents) and the Quality, Compliance 
and Technology Committee provides oversight for 
product cybersecurity matters.
In response to growing and changing cyber threats, 
we continually assess and strengthen our cyber 
defenses and response capabilities. The Global IT Security Operations team helps to protect Baxter 
against cyberattacks using a range of defenses that 
help to secure our assets, reduce detection time 
and improve recoverability. We conduct routine   
exercises with business stakeholders and third-party   
responders to promote awareness and improve  
processes. In addition, post-incident review meetings 
and reports provide insight into how we can update 
our response strategies. Our threat hunting process 
helps to protect our systems against evolving security  
threats, and we conduct risk-based reviews and due 
diligence monitoring through our Governance Risk 
and Compliance program. 
To further strengthen cybersecurity across our 
network and portfolio of Baxter and Hillrom 
products, Baxter became a Common Vulnerability  
and Exposures (CVE) Numbering Authority  in 
early 2022. The CVE program is sponsored by the 
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, 
which is part of the U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security and aims to enable the rapid identification 
and resolution of cybersecurity issues. In addition, 
Baxter is a member of the Health Information 
Sharing and Analysis Center, which we leverage 
to inform risk-based decisions and share best 
practices with other cybersecurity professionals in 
the healthcare industry. 
Our customers can access our online Product Security  
summary to learn about security vulnerabilities that 
might affect Baxter products. In addition, Baxter has 
Brand Indicators for Message Identification (BIMI). 
BIMI adds an extra layer of authentication to emails and displays our logo in recipients’ inboxes. This 
helps customers and healthcare professionals have 
confidence that the emails they receive from Baxter are 
genuine and not from fraudulent parties. 
We continue to raise privacy and security awareness 
with all Baxter users through annual mandatory 
training1 and recurring reinforcement through virtual 
events and updated materials. We require multifactor 
authentication and an always-on virtual private 
network (VPN) system to provide additional safeguards 
for our employees working remotely. In addition, our 
Third Party Risk Management program includes 
assessment and monitoring of security standards and 
control procedures for critical external suppliers.Privacy and Data Protection 
BAXTER DIGITAL SECURITY CERTIFICATIONS
All information Baxter collects and uses is handled in a secure manner. We align with and/or have obtained certifications for the following  
internal systems, products and services.
SCOPE* CERTIFICATIONS AND ALIGNMENT
INTERNAL SYSTEMS
Enterprise and internally developed  
systems environment  • These systems are formally aligned to and internally audited against Baxter’s  
Digital Security Controls Framework. This framework aligns with NIST 800-53 controls. 
• We align our data security controls with additional industry standard control  
frameworks and regulatory requirements. 
• Baxter’s cloud service providers and data center colocation providers are certified  
against multiple standards, including SOC 2 Availability certification.
PRODUCTS
PrisMax v3
DCM v1.3.5• UL 2900 Certification
SERVICES
Sharesource connectivity platform • ISO 27001 Certification
• French HDH CertificationNovum IQ
Dose IQCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentIntroduction2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesAppendixCross-Cutting 
Commitments
* Not all products listed are available in all or any geographies and proposed certifications for these products may be subject to change prior to regulatory approval or launch.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  52Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix:  
About This Report
EXTERNAL REPORTING STANDARDS 
To develop our corporate responsibility reporting 
approach, we have considered the disclosure 
frameworks and guidance of leading sustainability 
standards and reporting organizations, including the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals and third-
party raters and rankers focused on environmental, 
social and governance issues.
We were one of the 
first companies 
to pilot the GRI 
Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, in 1999, and 
belong to the GRI Community. We referenced the GRI 
Sustainability Reporting Standards  in the development 
of this report. See the GRI Content Index  for detail.
In addition, this report includes our SASB disclosure , 
based on the SASB Medical Equipment and Supplies 
Sustainability Accounting Standard.
FEEDBACK
Readers of this report can provide comments and 
suggestions to us via email: corporate  responsibility  
report@baxter.com .
SCOPE OF THIS REPORT
The performance and other data in this report are 
from calendar year 2021 unless stated otherwise. 
Some examples and program descriptions include 
information from 2022.• This report covers Baxter’s global operations, 
including subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. 
Environmental, health, safety and sustainability  
data include joint ventures where we have a  
controlling interest.
• The content in this report refers to Baxter and 
does not include Hillrom, unless stated otherwise. 
Our 2022 Corporate Responsibility Report will 
reflect the combined company.
• All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless 
stated otherwise.
• Significant restatements of data compared with prior 
years are noted in the sections where they appear.
• All references to “new product launches” in 
this report include new product launches, line 
extensions and geographical expansions, unless 
otherwise noted.
• This report is intended for global use. Please 
consult the appropriate country-specific Baxter 
website for information regarding activities in that 
country.
• Some statements in this report about products or 
procedures may differ from the licensed indi-
cations in specific countries. Therefore, always 
consult the country-specific summary of product 
characteristics, package leaflets or instructions 
for use. For more information, please contact a 
local Baxter representative.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report contains forward-looking statements 
concerning Baxter, including with respect to 
compliance, future performance, our 2030 Corporate 
Responsibility Commitment and other plans 
and initiatives. These statements are based on 
assumptions about many important factors, including 
the following, which could cause actual results to 
differ materially from those in the forward-looking 
statements: the impact of global economic conditions (including potential trade wars and economic 
sanctions) and public health crises and epidemics, 
such as the ongoing coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, 
on us and our employees, customers and suppliers, 
including foreign governments in countries in which 
we operate; demand for and market acceptance 
of risks for new and existing products; product 
development risks (including any delays in obtaining 
required regulatory approvals or failures to obtain such 
approvals); product quality or patient safety concerns; 
continuity, availability and pricing of acceptable raw 
materials and component supply; inability to create 
additional production capacity in a timely manner 
or the occurrence of other manufacturing or supply 
difficulties (including as a result of natural disasters, 
public health crises and epidemics/pandemics, 
geopolitical crises, regulatory actions or otherwise; 
accurate identification of and execution on business 
development and R&D opportunities and realization 
of anticipated benefits (including the acquisitions 
of Cheetah Medical, Seprafilm Adhesion Barrier, 
specified OUS rights to Caelyx / Doxil formulations, 
full U.S. and specific OUS rights to Transderm Scop 
scopolamine patch, PerClot hemostat, Hillrom and 
certain rights to Zosyn in the U.S. and Canada); 
breaches or failures of our information technology 
systems or products, including by cyberattack, 
unauthorized access or theft; the adequacy of our 
cash flows from operations (which may be negatively 
impacted by collectability concerns as a result of 
the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise) and 
other sources of liquidity to meet our ongoing cash 
obligations and fund our investment program; loss of 
key employees or inability to identify and recruit new 
employees; future actions of regulatory bodies and 
other governmental authorities, including FDA, the 
Department of Justice, the SEC, the New York Attorney 
General and foreign regulatory agencies, including 
the continued delay in lifting the warning letter at our 
Ahmedabad facility; the outcome of pending or future 
litigation, including the opioid litigation and current 
and future ethylene oxide litigation or other claims; 
proposed regulatory changes of the U.S. Department 
of Health and Human Services in kidney health policy 
and reimbursement, which may substantially change 
the U.S. end-stage renal disease market and demand 
for our peritoneal dialysis products, necessitating 
significant multiyear capital expenditures, which 
are difficult to estimate in advance; failures with 
respect to compliance programs; future actions 
of third parties, including payers; U.S. healthcare 
reform and other global austerity measures; pricing, 
reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies of 
government agencies and private payers; the impact 
of competitive products and pricing, including generic 
competition, drug reimportation and disruptive 
technologies; fluctuations in foreign exchange and 
interest rates; the ability to enforce owned or in-
licensed patents or the prevention or restriction of the 
manufacture, sale or use of products or technology 
affected by patents of third parties; global trade 
and tax policies; any change in laws concerning 
the taxation of income (including current or future 
tax reform), including income earned outside the 
United States and potential taxes associated with the 
Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax or the Build Back 
Better framework; actions taken by tax authorities 
in connection with ongoing tax audits; and other 
risks identified in Baxter’s most recent filings on 
Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and other SEC filings, all 
of which are available on Baxter’s website. Baxter 
does not undertake to update its forward-looking 
statements unless otherwise required by the federal 
securities laws.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  53Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Materiality Assessment Findings1 
For more information about the process we undertook and the key findings of our 2018 assessment, see page 6 of our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report .
Climate ChangeReducing energy consumption and expanding use of renewable energy in Baxter’s operations and reducing greenhouse gas emissions across our value chain; incorporating climate change 
strategy, including adaptation and resilience planning, into relevant business decisions. Learn more.
Community Support  
and VolunteerismSupporting communities in need where Baxter has a presence, with partnerships aimed at addressing economic, environmental and social needs, including through financial contributions 
and employee volunteerism. Learn more.
Diversity and InclusionMaintaining an inclusive, nondiscriminatory hiring process and culture; providing employees equal pay for equal work regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation or disability; welcoming, 
leveraging and appreciating the uniqueness of every Baxter employee; and supporting supplier diversity. Learn more.
Employee Attraction, 
Development and RetentionAttracting, engaging and retaining top talent by providing employees career and personal training and development opportunities, and designing succession plans to ensure there are 
qualified Baxter candidates for critical positions; upholding labor rights and ensuring that labor concerns can be reported. Learn more.
Ethics and ComplianceProviding an effective corporate governance structure, business processes, marketing standards, and reporting mechanisms, and fostering an open culture that demonstrates the highest 
ethics and anticorruption standards. Learn more.
Health, Safety and  
Well-BeingProviding employees with a zero-harm workplace, an environment that encourages healthy choices, and resources to maintain and improve their health and safety and that of their families. 
Learn more.
Healthcare Access and 
AffordabilityImproving access to, and affordability of, Baxter products and services for populations in need through product innovation, public health initiatives, public policy efforts, business model 
innovation and strategic giving, which includes product donations and grants from the Baxter International Foundation. Learn more.
Human Rights Ensuring workers across Baxter’s value chain are treated in accordance with international standards of human rights. Learn more.
Innovation Investing in innovation that solves for unmet needs and improves patient outcomes and standards of care. Learn more.
Patient Safety and Quality Helping to ensure quality and patient safety across the product life cycle through leading practices in design, materials use, manufacturing, communications, surveillance and reporting. Learn more.
Privacy and Data ProtectionProtecting personal information from unauthorized or inappropriate collection, processing and disclosure, and protecting information resources from threats, whether internal or external, 
deliberate or accidental. Learn more.
Product SustainabilityIncorporating and managing sustainability across the product life cycle (R&D and design, materials use including chemicals of concern, manufacturing, product transport, packaging, product 
use and end-of-life), and communicating sustainable product attributes to customers. Learn more.
Supply Chain Sustainability Working with suppliers to improve their own sustainability programs and performance, as well as Baxter’s. Learn more.
Waste Minimizing disposal of manufacturing waste from Baxter’s operations, first through source reduction and reuse and then through recycling and energy recovery. Learn more.
Water Use Reducing water use in Baxter’s operations, increasing reuse, managing water discharge quality and protecting local water sources, especially in water-scarce areas. Learn more.ISSUE DESCRIPTION Upstream DownstreamBaxter 
OperationsIMPACT WITHIN VALUE CHAINBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  54Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Baxter Data Summary
SECTION AND INDICATOR 2019 2020 2021
Financial Performance1
Net Sales ($ millions) $11,362 $11,673 $12,784
U.S. Net Sales ($ millions) $4,826 $4,878 $5,180
International Net Sales ($ millions) $6,536 $6,795 $7,604
Net Income ($ millions) $1,011 $1,110 $1,295
Stock Price ($ at year end) $83.62 $80.24 $85.84
Dividend ($ per share) $0.85 $0.955 $1.085
Research and Development ($ millions) $595 $521 $534
Continually Improve Manufacturing Capabilities
Total Recalls: Medical Device and Drug
Within the United States29 12 10
Outside the United States 33 27 29
Recalls: Medical Device Only
Within the United States26 11 10
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Class I Recalls20 1 3
Outside the United States 16 17 16
Recalls: Drug Only
Within the United States23 1 0
FDA Class I Recalls20 0 0
Outside the United States 17 10 13
Product Recall Rate3 (% of Product Codes Sold) 0.7% 0.5% 1.6%
FDA Inspections and Enforcement Actions4
Form 483s Received 5 0 2
Warning Letters Open 1 1 1
Warning Letters Resolved 1 0 0
Warning Letters Received 0 0 0
Product Seizure 0 0 0
Consent Decree 0 0 0
Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations by 20405
Energy Usage from Baxter Operations6 (trillions of joules) 9,670 9,888 10,316
North America 4,247 4,323 4,680
Latin America 972 1,021 990
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 2,842 2,914 3,000
Asia Pacific 1,609 1,630 1,645
Billions of Joules per Million Dollars of Sales 851 847 821
Renewable Energy Usage (trillions of joules) 2,850 2,798 3,047
Facility Usage of Renewable Energy (as a % of total energy use) 29% 28% 30%SECTION AND INDICATOR 2019 2020 2021
Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations by 20405 (continued)
Lean Energy Program Performance7 (% of program criteria  
implemented across all manufacturing facilities, at year-end)
Prerequisite 91% 96% 96%
Bronze 85% 90% 91%
Silver 74% 82% 83%
Gold 56% 64% 64%
Baxter’s Global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Footprint 
(Scope 1, 2, and 3) (metric tons CO2e). See Baxter Value Chain 
Energy Usage and GHG Emissions  for detail.5,586,000 5,091,000 5,259,000
GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations8 (metric tons CO2e) 597,000 600,000 598,000
North America 249,000 246,000 237,000
Latin America 65,000 65,000 62,000
EMEA 120,000 127,000 134,000
Asia Pacific 163,000 162,000 164,000
GHG Emissions from Operations per Million Dollars of Sales 
(metric tons CO2e)53 51 47
Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Mode9
(metric tons CO2e) 440,000 449,500 425,800
Air 53,100 105,800 84,500
Ocean 51,900 38,500 46,900
Rail 21,800 12,800 14,200
Road 313,200 292,500 280,200
Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Region9 
(metric tons CO2e) 440,000 449,500 425,800
North America 164,600 206,400 175,900
Latin America 64,200 64,900 63,600
EMEA 164,100 98,300 92,100
Asia Pacific 47,100 79,900 94,200
Implement Strategic Water Management Plans5
Water Usage10 (thousand cubic meters) 14,480 14,623 14,708
North America 5,204 5,173 5,254
Latin America 1,734 1,957 1,908
EMEA 4,396 4,444 4,402
Asia Pacific 3,146 3,049 3,144
Thousand Cubic Meters Water Usage10 per Million Dollars of Sales 1.27 1.25 1.17
Water Usage,10 by Availability11 (thousand cubic meters) 13,831 14,034 14,159
Extremely High Water Stress 1,156 1,300 1,281
High Water Stress 2,929 2,868 2,771
Medium-High Water Stress 1,197 1,141 1,229SECTION AND INDICATOR 2019 2020 2021
Implement Strategic Water Management Plans5 (continued)
Water Usage,10 by Availability11 (thousand cubic meters) (continued)
Low-Medium Water Stress 2,089 2,192 2,008
Low Water Stress 6,461 6,533 6,872
Wastewater Flow12 (total direct discharge, thousand cubic  meters) 3,511 3,422 3,318
BOD5 (metric tons) 33 20 17
BOD5 (mg/L) 9 6 5
COD (metric tons) 86 52 45
COD (mg/L) 24 15 14
TSS (metric tons) 44 25 26
TSS (mg/L) 12 7 8
Advance Sustainable Procurement
Spend with Suppliers13 (United States and Puerto Rico)  
(approximate, dollars in billions) $2.9 $2.3 $2.2
Supplier Diversity14 (dollars in millions)
Spend with Small Businesses $167 $144 $190
Spend with Minority-Owned Businesses $102 $64 $73
Spend with Women-Owned Businesses $96 $84 $90
Spend with Veteran-Owned Businesses $4 $6 $6
Implement Strategic Materials and Waste Management Plans5
Total Waste15 (metric tons) 71,800 72,600 71,200
North America 28,500 31,600 30,100
Latin America 7,900 8,200 7,900
EMEA 25,800 23,100 23,300
Asia Pacific 9,600 9,700 9,800
Metric Tons of Total Waste per Million Dollars of Sales 6.32 6.22 5.66
Nonhazardous Waste16 (metric tons) 62,700 66,300 65,900
North America 26,000 30,300 29,100
Latin America 6,600 6,500 6,500
EMEA 20,800 20,000 20,700
Asia Pacific 9,300 9,500 9,600
Metric Tons of Nonhazardous Waste per Million Dollars of Sales 5.52 5.68 5.24
Regulated Waste17 (metric tons) 9,100 6,200 5,300
North America 2,400 1,200 1,000
Latin America 1,400 1,600 1,500
EMEA 5,000 3,100 2,600
Asia Pacific 300 300 300
Metric Tons of Regulated Waste per Million Dollars of Sales 0.80 0.53 0.42Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance on the following content in this section: Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations by 2040; Implement Strategic Water Management Plans; Advance Sustainable Procurement; Implement Strategic Materials and Waste Management Plans; 
Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability Governance and Additional Disclosures; and Achieve Top Quartile Workplace Safety Performance.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  55Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Baxter Data Summary (continued)
SECTION AND INDICATOR 2019 2020 2021
Implement Strategic Materials and Waste Management Plans5 (continued)
Waste Management at Baxter (% of total)
Recycled (on-site or off-site) 56.9% 59.1% 61.5%
Incinerated with Energy Recovery 18.0% 18.3% 15.7%
Incinerated 5.1% 5.0% 4.6%
Sent to Landfill 17.0% 15.7% 16.3%
Other Disposal 2.9% 2.0% 1.9%
Environmental, Health, Safety and  Sustainability Governance and Additional Disclosures
Baxter Toxics Release Inventory Air Releases18 (metric tons) 31 23 --
NOx and SOx Emissions19 (metric tons) 554 569 576
NOx 428 436 463
SOx 126 134 113
Kg NOx and SOx Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales 49 49 46
Environmental Compliance
Environmental Notices of Violation 22 5 12
Environmental Fines Paid20 (in dollars) $0 $861 $0
Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving21 (dollars in millions)
Total Charitable Giving, by Category $28.41 $38.18 $55.88
Investments in Underserved Communities Globally -- -- $51.72
Other Charitable Giving -- -- $4.16
Total Charitable Giving, by Type $28.41 $38.18 $55.88
Baxter Product Donations to Aid Organizations22$16.81 $24.33 $36.14
Business and Facility Cash Donations $4.77 $5.42 $7.71
Within the United States (including U.S. Territories) $1.21 $2.05 $4.85
Outside the United States $3.56 $3.37 $2.86
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions $6.83 $8.43 $12.04
Within the United States (including U.S. Territories) $6.06 $7.63 $11.48
Grants23$4.77 $6.10 $10.13
Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers $0.81 $0.83 $0.75
Scholarships $0.15 $0.39 $0.47
Prize Programs $0.33 $0.31 $0.13
Outside the United States $0.77 $0.80 $0.56
Grants $0.66 $0.53 $0.24
Scholarships $0.11 $0.27 $0.32
Achieve Top Quartile Workplace Safety Performance24
Recordable Incident Rate250.39 0.41 0.33
North America 0.82 0.66 0.58
Latin America 0.24 0.46 0.27
EMEA 0.32 0.40 0.33
Asia Pacific 0.07 0.08 0.06
Cases with Days Lost Rate260.086 0.174 0.116
North America 0.165 0.180 0.181
Latin America 0.000 0.249 0.073
EMEA 0.148 0.255 0.171
Asia Pacific 0.008 0.023 0.023
Days Lost Rate272.14 4.80 4.15
North America 5.88 7.10 9.89
Latin America 0.00 2.99 0.64
EMEA 1.47 7.50 3.96
Asia Pacific 0.01 1.24 0.30SECTION AND INDICATOR 2019 2020 2021
Achieve Top Quartile Workplace Safety Performance24 (continued)
Restricted Days Rate287.83 3.77 3.89
North America 21.16 9.80 10.94
Latin America 0.55 1.61 0.42
EMEA 3.79 1.35 0.68
Asia Pacific 1.43 0.86 1.19
Days Away (Lost), Restricted or Transferred Rate (DART) 9.97 8.57 8.04
Employee/Contractor Major Incidents (total number) 5/1 12/1 4/0
Employee/Contractor Fatalities (total number) 0/0 0/0 0/0
Health and Safety Notices of Violation Settled 3 2 1
Health and Safety Fines Paid (in dollars) $9,382 $3,450 $7,802
Sources of Recordable Injury and Serious Incidents (as a % of total) 
Ergonomic 24% 14% 22%
Illness -- 18% 9%
Involving the Body (nonergonomic) 6% 5% 9%
Punctures 13% 9% 7%
Struck by Object 15% 13% 12%
Slips, Trips and Falls 22% 18% 24%
Caught In, On or Between 13% 13% 7%
Forklifts and Other Vehicles 3% 4% 2%
Other 4% 5% 8%
Increase Representation of Women and Ethnic Minorities in Leadership Roles
Global Workforce by Gender (as a % of total)
Women 47.8% 48.0% 48.4%
Men 52.2% 52.0% 51.6%
Representation of Women by Region (as a % of total)
Americas2949.6% 49.5% 49.5%
EMEA 47.2% 48.1% 48.9%
Asia Pacific 44.9% 44.9% 45.5%
Representation of Women by Job Level (as a % of total)
Vice President and Above 31.9% 28.7% 31.6%
Director -- 34.3% 37.1%
Manager -- 42.5% 42.1%
Professional3047.3% 47.2% 47.8%
Ethnic Minority Representation (as a % of total, U.S. only)  
Asian -- 8.6% 8.2%
Black/African American -- 9.7% 10.0%
Hispanic/Latino -- 18.0% 18.8%
White -- 61.9% 60.9%
Other31-- 1.8% 2.1%
Ethnic Minority Representation by Job Level  
(as a % of total, U.S. only) 38.5% 38.1% 37.6%
Vice President and Above 18.4% 18.0% 17.0%
Director -- 23.2% 25.3%
Manager -- 27.7% 26.6%
Professional3030.0% 30.9% 31.1%SECTION AND INDICATOR 2019 2020 2021
Increase Representation of Women and Ethnic Minorities in Leadership Roles (continued)
Ethnic Minority Representation by Job Level (as a % of total, U.S. only) (continued)
Vice President and Above
Asian -- 10.1% 8.9%
Black/African American -- 2.2% 3.3%
Hispanic/Latino -- 3.4% 4.5%
White -- 82.0% 82.2%
Other31-- 2.3% 1.1%
Director
Asian -- 9.9% 12.4%
Black/African American -- 2.8% 3.0%
Hispanic/Latino -- 8.8% 8.3%
White -- 76.8% 74.2%
Other31-- 1.7% 2.1%
Manager
Asian -- 15.1% 14.1%
Black/African American -- 3.0% 3.9%
Hispanic/Latino -- 8.1% 7.6%
White -- 72.3% 72.8%
Other31-- 1.5% 1.6%
Professional30
Asian -- 8.6% 8.5%
Black/African American -- 5.6% 5.8%
Hispanic/Latino -- 14.6% 15.3%
White -- 69.1% 68.0%
Other31-- 2.1% 2.4%
Additional Workforce Disclosures
Global Workforce by Job Level (as a % of total) 
Vice President and Above 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
Director -- 1.6% 1.7%
Manager -- 9.2% 9.2%
Professional3025.6% 26.2% 26.1%
Technical/Clerical3263.1% 62.7% 62.8%
Global Workforce by Region (as a % of total) 
Americas2948.2% 48.2% 49.0%
EMEA 27.2% 27.4% 27.0%
Asia Pacific 24.6% 24.3% 24.0%
Best Place to Work Survey (category scores)33 
Culture 74% -- 78%
Development 70% -- 75%
Engagement 71% -- 80%
Inclusion 69% -- 77%
Leadership 67% -- 72%
Organization 74% -- 76%
Rewards 64% -- 64%
Workplace 73% -- 78%
Total Employee Training Hours341,920,000 950,000 2,200,000
Training Hours Per Employee (average)3438.4 18 30
Voluntary Employee Turnover Rate 10.7% 9.2% 14.0%
Political Contributions
See the Baxter 2021 Public Policy and Political Contributions Report  for detailed data.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  56Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
  2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021
Baxter Operations3
Scope 1 - Stationary Sources (facilities)
Natural Gas  Million Cubic Meters 114 121 134 4,384 4,631 5,139 $34.7 $33.0 $37.0 221 234 260
Fuel Oil Million Liters 5 6 5 208 236 217 $3.1 $3.3 $3.3 15 17 15
Propane and LPG Million Kilograms 7 8 8 359 363 372 $5.1 $4.6 $6.1 22 22 23
Biomass4 Million Kilograms 144 139 140 986 972 979 $4.4 $5.6 $5.2  2 2 2
Subtotal  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a 5,937 6,202 6,707 $47.3 $46.5 $51.6 260 275 300
Scope 1 - Mobile Sources (Baxter-operated vehicles)5
Aviation Fuel Million Liters 0.4 0.3 0.2 14 9 5 $0.3 $0.2 $0.1 1 1 0
Gasoline  Million Liters 5.8 4.8 5.4 206 177 194 $6.5 $5.3 $6.5 13 11 12
Diesel Fuel   Million Liters 6.6 6.7 7.0 255 256 272 $5.9 $4.6 $6.0 18 18 19
Subtotal Million Liters  12.8 11.8 12.6 475 442 471 $12.7 $10.1 $12.6 32 30 31
Refrigerants6
Refrigerant Losses (facilities) Metric Tons /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 8 8 7
Scope 1 Total    /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 300 313 338
Scope 2 - Electricity and Purchased Steam    
Electricity (purchased)7 Million Kilowatt-Hours 995 982 970 3,598 3,554 3,506 $111.9 $109.5 $104.9 267 257 232
Electricity (on-site renewable) Million  Kilowatt-Hours 3 2 4 12 7 14 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Purchased Steam Million Kilograms 54 54 40 124 126 93 $1.7 $1.4 $1.4 30 30 28
Scope 2 Total (market-based)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 297 287 260
Scope 2 Total (location-based)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 410 387 385
Baxter Operations Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a 10,146 10,331 10,791 $173.6 $167.5 $170.5 597 600 598
Scope 3 Emissions   
Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1)8  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 805 827 891
Capital Goods (Category 2)9  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 243 247 259
Fuel and Energy-Related Activities (Category 3)10  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 147 147 147
Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 4)11  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 440 432 409
Waste Generated in Operations (Category 5)12  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 15 15 14
Business Travel (Category 6)13  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 28 7 8
Employee Commuting (Category 7)14  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 29 30 30
Upstream Leased Assets (Category 8)15  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Downstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 9)16  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 131 136 140
Processing of Sold Products (Category 10)17  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 16 17 23
Use of Sold Products (Category 11)18  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 2,958 2,463 2,564
End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products (Category 12)18  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 177 170 176
Downstream Leased Assets (Category 13)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Franchises (Category 14)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Investments (Category 15)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Scope 3 Emissions Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 4,989 4,491 4,661
Total  GHG E missions19 /uniFEFF n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 5,586 5,091 5,259ENERGY USAGE JOULES
(trillions)ENERGY COSTS
(dollars in millions)CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENTS1,2
(thousand metric tons)
UnitsApex Companies, LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  57Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 and Green Building Certifications1 
Apex Companies, LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
REGION/COUNTRY/
STATE/PROVINCEREGION/COUNTRY/
STATE/PROVINCE CITY CITYISO  
14001ISO  
14001ISO  
450012ISO  
450012ISO  
50001ISO  
50001GREEN BUILDING 
CERTIFICATIONGREEN BUILDING 
CERTIFICATION
North America
Canada, Ontario Alliston X X
Canada, Ontario Mississauga Canada LEED Silver (2014)
United States, Alabama Opelika X X
United States, Arkansas Mountain Home/Midway X X X
United States, California Hayward X X
United States, California Irvine X X
United States, Illinois Round Lake, Manufacturing X X
United States, Illinois Round Lake, R&D LEED Silver (2013)3
United States, Indiana Bloomington X X
United States, Minnesota St. Paul X
United States, Mississippi Cleveland X X X
United States, New York Medina X
United States, North Carolina Marion (North Cove) X X
Latin America
Brazil São Paulo X X X
Colombia Cali X X X
Dominican Republic Haina X X
Costa Rica Cartago X X X
Mexico Atlacomulco X X
Mexico Cuernavaca X X
Mexico Tijuana X
Puerto Rico Aibonito X X
Puerto Rico Guayama X
Puerto Rico Jayuya X
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Belgium Lessines X X X
Belgium Lessines BDCE X X X
France Jonage-Lyon X BREEAM Good (2011)
France Meyzieu X X
Germany Bielefeld X X X
Germany Halle Westfalen X X X
Germany Hechingen X X X
Greece Athens (Herakleio) X
Ireland Castlebar X X X
Ireland Swinford X XEurope, Middle East and Africa (continued)
Ireland Dublin/Blackrock X
Ireland Dublin/Sandyford X
Italy Grosotto X X X
Italy Medolla X X
Italy Rome X X Italia LEED Gold (2015)
Italy Sesto Fiorentino X X
Italy Sondalo X X X
Malta Marsa X X X
Portugal Sintra X X
Spain Sabiñánigo X X X
Spain Valencia X X
Sweden Kista X EU GreenBuilding (2011)
Sweden Lund X
Sweden Rosersberg X EU GreenBuilding (2011)
Switzerland Zurich Minergie Plus (2010)
Tunisia Oued Ellil X X
United Kingdom Elstree X
United Kingdom Croydon X
United Kingdom Northampton X X
United Kingdom Stockport X X
United Kingdom Oxford X X
United Kingdom Thetford X X
Asia Pacific
Australia Toongabbie X X X
China Guangzhou X X
China Shanghai X X
China Suzhou X X
China Tianjin X X
Japan Miyazaki X
New Zealand Auckland X X
Philippines Canlubang X X
Singapore Woodlands X X X
Thailand Amata XBaxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  58Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Independent Assurance Statement
To: The Stakeholders of Baxter International Inc.
Introduction and Objectives of Work
Baxter International Inc. (Baxter) engaged Apex 
Companies, LLC (Apex) to provide assurance of selected 
sections of Baxter’s 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report. This 
Assurance Statement applies to the Subject Matter included within the 
scope of work described below.
This information and its presentation in Baxter’s 2021 Corporate 
Responsibility Report (“the Report”) are the sole responsibility of the 
management of Baxter. Apex was not involved in the drafting of the 
Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance 
on the accuracy of the Subject Matter. Baxter’s 2021 Corporate 
Responsibility Report marks the 13th year for which we have provided 
assurance.
Scope of Work
The scope of our work was reasonable-level assurance of the following 
information included within the Report for the period Jan. 1, 2021, to 
Dec. 31, 2021 (the “Subject Matter”).
Data and information included in the following sections of the Report:
• Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations by 2040
> Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions verification is documented under 
a separate verification opinion declaration
• Implement Strategic Water Management Plans
• Implement Strategic Materials and Waste Management Plans
• Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability Governance and 
Additional Disclosures
• Achieve Top Quartile Workplace Safety Performance
Related material in the Report Appendix, including:
• Baxter Data Summary—Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct 
Operations by 2040; Implement Strategic Water Management Plans; 
Advance Sustainable Procurement; Implement Strategic Materials 
and Waste Management Plans; Environmental, Health, Safety and 
Sustainability Governance and Additional Disclosures; Achieve Top 
Quartile Workplace Safety Performance
• Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions (Energy, Scope 
1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions)
• Facilities with ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 and Green Building 
Certifications
The scope of work also included limited-level assurance of the 
following Subject Matter:
• Data and information included in the following sections of the Report:
> Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations by 2040 (Scope 3 
GHG emissions, Product Distribution section)
> Supplier Diversity in the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion section
> Protecting Human Rights in Our Supply Chain in the Human Rights 
section
> Advance Sustainable Procurement• Related material in the Report Appendix:
> Baxter Data Summary—Supplier Diversity and GHG Emissions 
from Product Transport subsections
> Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions—Scope 3 
emissions
Our assurance does not extend to any other information included in 
the Report.
Reporting Boundaries
The following are the boundaries Baxter used for reporting 
sustainability data:
• Operational control
• Worldwide
Reporting Criteria
The Subject Matter needs to be read and understood together with 
Baxter’s internal reporting requirements for facility environmental, 
health, safety and sustainability performance, as well as information 
described in the text, appendix, data tables and notes of the Report.
Limitations and Exclusions
Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information 
relating to:
• Activities outside the defined assurance period, which is the 2021 
calendar year
• Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future 
intention) by Baxter and statements of future commitment
• Any financial data previously audited by an external third party
• Data and information included in sections of the Report not listed in 
the scope of work above
This assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected sample of 
sustainability data and the associated limitations that this entails. This 
independent statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, 
omissions or misstatements that may exist.
Responsibilities
The preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the Report 
are the sole responsibility of the management of Baxter. Apex was not 
involved in the drafting of the Report or of the Reporting Criteria. Our 
responsibilities were to:
• Provide independent assurance about whether the Subject Matter  
has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria
• Form an independent conclusion based on the assurance 
procedures performed and evidence obtained
• Report our conclusions to the stakeholders of Baxter
Assessment Standards
We performed our work in accordance with Apex’s standard 
procedures and guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability Reports and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance 
reports dated on or after Dec. 15, 2015), issued by the International 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A materiality threshold of 
±5% was set for the assurance process.
The work was planned and carried out to provide reasonable, rather 
than absolute, assurance of the Subject Matter except for the Scope 
3 GHG emissions and Product Distribution in the Achieve Carbon 
Neutrality for Direct Operations by 2040 section; Protecting Human 
Rights in Our Supply Chain in the Human Rights section; Supplier 
Diversity in the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion section; and the Advance 
Sustainable Procurement section, which was carried out to provide 
limited assurance. We believe that our work provides an appropriate 
basis for our conclusions.
Summary of Work Performed
As part of our independent verification, our work included:
• Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the 
Subject Matter
• Conducting interviews with relevant Baxter personnel who are 
responsible for collecting and reporting performance data and other 
Subject Matter
• Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Baxter
• Reviewing Baxter’s systems for quantitative data aggregation and 
analysis during remote meetings with personnel from Baxter’s 
offices in Round Lake and Deerfield, Illinois
• Assessing assumptions made and the data scope and reporting 
boundaries. Auditing consolidated performance data, including 
review of a sample of data-to-source documentation
• Auditing a selection of the Subject Matter to the corresponding 
source documentation
• Auditing performance data during virtual audits of operating sites 
located in Ahmedabad, India; Cleveland, Mississippi; Deerfield, 
Illinois; Lund, Sweden; Medolla, Italy; and Opelika, Alabama
• Assessing the disclosure and presentation of the Subject Matter with 
emphasis on principles of accuracy, accessibility, balance, clarity, 
comparability, reliability and timeliness and to ensure consistency 
with the Reporting Criteria
Conclusion
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, 
it is our opinion that the Subject Matter within assured sections 
including: the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
Governance and Additional Disclosures; Achieve Carbon Neutrality for 
Direct Operations by 2040; Implement Strategic Materials and Waste 
Management Plans; Implement Strategic Water Management Plans; 
and Achieve Top Quartile Workplace Safety Performance sections of 
the Report, as well as related material in the Report Appendix:
• Is presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria and is, in all 
material respects, fairly stated
• Is presented in a clear, understandable and accessible manner
JOHN A. ROHDE  
Apex Companies LLC   |   Lakewood, COTREVOR DONAGHU  
Apex Companies LLC   |   Pleasant Hill, CA
May 9, 2022 • Allows readers to form a balanced opinion of Baxter’s activities 
and performance during calendar year 2021
Also, on the basis of our methodology and the activities described 
above:
• Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the data 
and information in the Responsible Procurement and Logistics 
section of the Report are inaccurate or that the information is not 
fairly stated.
• It is also our opinion that Baxter has established appropriate 
systems for the collection, aggregation, analysis and review of 
the Subject Matter.
Additional Commentary
During the assurance process, Apex observed that Baxter 
continues to improve its overall data collection and reporting 
processes at the site and corporate level. Opportunities for 
improving facility-level data collection, reporting and procedural 
documentation at some facilities were noted.
We recommend that Baxter corporate personnel continue 
to support individual facility personnel with collection and 
consolidation of site-specific metrics that are included in reporting.
Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence
Apex is an independent professional services company that 
specializes in health, safety, social and environmental management 
services, including assurance, with more than 30 years history in 
providing these services.
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to 
maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day 
business activities.
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with 
Baxter International Inc., or its directors or managers, beyond that 
required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification 
independently, and there has been no conflict of interest.
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting 
assurance on health, safety, social, environmental and ethical 
information, systems and processes. The team has more than 
20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent 
understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the assurance 
of sustainability-related assertions.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  59Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
This index includes and references information related to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Medical Equipment and Supplies Sustainability Accounting Standard. Data are calendar year 2021, unless stated otherwise, and do not include Hillrom.
TOPIC CODE SASB METRIC 2021 REPORTING
Affordability  
& PricingHC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price 
increases (for all products) to the annual increase  
in the U.S. Consumer Price IndexBaxter does not disclose this data. See Contractual Arrangements in Baxter’s 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K  for information about  
some factors that impact product pricing.
HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each 
product is disclosed to customers or to their agentsBaxter products are sold through contracts with customers, both within and outside the United States. Some of these contracts have 
terms of more than one year and place limits on our ability to increase prices; some contracts also specify minimum quantities to be 
purchased by the customer; and some contracts may include variable consideration related to rebates, sales discounts and/or wholesaler 
chargebacks. Our customers include hospitals, governments, kidney dialysis centers and other organizations. Both in the United States 
and outside, hospitals and other customers have joined purchasing entities, such as group purchasing organizations, integrated delivery 
networks and public contracting authorities, to enhance purchasing power.
See the Contractual Arrangements, Competition and Healthcare Cost Containment, and Revenue Recognition sections in Baxter's 2021 
Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Product SafetyHC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled In 2021, Baxter issued
• Ten medical device product recalls that were reported to FDA and removed from the market or corrected1 
• Zero medical device product recalls that were not reported to FDA1 
• Sixteen medical device product recalls that were reported to non-U.S. national regulatory authorities and removed 
from the market or corrected 
See Continually Improve Manufacturing Capabilities and Baxter Data Summary for information about the company’s product improvements  
and recall data, inclusive of drug-related recalls. 
HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch  
Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products databaseAs of Dec. 31, 2021, the MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database  included the following Baxter medical device 
products: Dose IQ Safety Software and Spectrum IQ Infusion System. 
• Baxter Healthcare Recalls Dose IQ  Software Version 9.0.x, Used with Spectrum IQ  Infusion Pumps, for Software Defect That May 
Improperly Configure Drug and Fluid Delivery
• Baxter Issues Urgent Medical Device Correction for All Spectrum IQ  Infusion Pumps to Reinforce Important Safety Information Regarding  
Best Practices for Customer-Initiated IT Network Updates
HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as  
reported in the FDA Manufacturer and User Facility 
Device ExperienceUnder FDA regulations, manufacturers and device user facilities must report information that reasonably suggests a medical device may 
have caused or contributed to a fatality or serious injury. Manufacturers must also submit to FDA reports of certain malfunctions. Such 
reports for Baxter’s medical devices are available here: Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience .   
HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken 
in response to violations of current Good 
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by typeIn 2021, Baxter received
• Two Form 483s
• Zero warning letters
• Zero seizures 
• Zero consent decrees
See Continually Improve Manufacturing Capabilities,  as well as Certain Regulatory Matters in Baxter’s 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K  
for related information.  Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  60Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index (continued)
TOPIC CODE SASB METRIC 2021 REPORTING
Ethical 
MarketingHC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with false marketing claimsIn 2021, Baxter had no monetary losses due to legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims that were previously reported in 
any company Exchange Act filings.  
HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of 
off-label use of productsOff-label promotion is strictly prohibited at Baxter. See the Baxter Code of Conduct  and the Baxter Global Interactions Policy . See Ethics and 
Compliance  for information about the company’s approach in this area.
Product Design 
& Lifecycle 
ManagementHC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage 
environmental and human health considerations 
associated with chemicals in products, and meet 
demand for sustainable productsSee Sustainable Design , Materials Use in Products and Packaging , Materials of Concern  and Striving for Full Materials Disclosure  
for information about the company’s approach in this area. 
HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for takeback and 
reused, recycled, or donated, broken down by: (1) 
devices and equipment and (2) suppliesSee Product End-of-Life  for product recovery data and information about the company’s approach in this area. 
Supply Chain 
ManagementHC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I 
suppliers’ facilities participating in third-party audit 
programs for manufacturing and product qualityBetween 2019 and 2021, approximately 40% of Baxter’s total facilities worldwide completed third-party audits based on ISO 13485 or ISO 9001  
(including through the Medical Device Single Audit Program); approximately 50% completed ministry of health or equivalent audits 
(depending on location) related to manufacturing and product quality; and nearly 10% completed safety marking (such as CE marking) audits.
As of Dec. 31, 2021, 29% of Baxter’s Tier I suppliers had obtained third-party certification. See Continually Improve Manufacturing Capabilities  
and Supplier Audits  for related information. 
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within 
the distribution chainBaxter has a range of systems and processes to maintain traceability of materials throughout the product supply and distribution chain: 
• Traceability of materials from suppliers to Baxter, and throughout the manufacturing process, is maintained utilizing electronic systems.  
• Products manufactured by Baxter are labeled with an identifier that is traceable from the manufacturing process to the customer and 
may utilize barcoding and serialization technology to facilitate electronic track-and-trace capability. Enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
systems are used to manage traceability to the point of sale. Baxter has business agreements with our wholesalers to ensure traceability 
is maintained within their distribution chains, and we can access related information if needed. 
• Baxter maintains a range of compliance-focused initiatives to help ensure all products are labeled as required by local and regional 
regulations to enable traceability. 
See section 7.11, Product Identification and Traceability of the Baxter Supplier Quality Standard  and Customs Trade Partnership Against 
Terrorism program content in Industry Collaboration  for more information.
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated 
with the use of critical materialsSee Baxter’s Position Statement on Conflict Minerals  and our most recent Conflict Minerals Report .
Business EthicsHC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with bribery or corruptionIn 2021, Baxter had no monetary losses due to legal proceedings associated with bribery or corruption that were previously reported in any 
company Exchange Act filings. See Ethics and Compliance  for information about the company’s approach in this area.
HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions 
with health care professionalsSee Baxter’s Global Interactions Policy  and Ethics and Compliance  for information about the company’s approach in this area.
Baxter has adopted the AdvaMed Code of Ethics and also belongs to similar industry and professional associations around the world.  
See Professional Codes of Ethics and Industry Standards on Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance  page for information.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  61Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
Appendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 (continued)
Governance 
102-18 Governance structure Our Governance
102-19 Delegating authority 10
102-20Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental and social topics10
102-22Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committeesOur Governance
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Our Governance
Organizational Profile
102-24Nominating and selecting the highest  
governance bodyCorporate Governance Guidelines
102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Guidelines
102-31Review of economic, environmental and  
social topics11
102-33 Communicating critical concernsBaxter 2022 Proxy Statement, (Baxter 2022 
Proxy Statement Amendment)
102-35 Remuneration policiesCorporate Governance Guidelines,  
Baxter 2022 Proxy Statement, (Baxter 2022 
Proxy Statement Amendment)
102-36 Process for determining remunerationCorporate Governance Guidelines, Baxter 
2022 Proxy Statement, (Baxter 2022 Proxy 
Statement Amendment)
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11
Reporting Practice  
102-45Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statementsBaxter 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 11
102-47 List of material topics 11
102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2021
102-51 Date of most recent report July 2021
102-52 Reporting cycle Yearly
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report corporate_responsibility_report@baxter.com
102-55 GRI content index This section
102-56 External assurance 2DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization 4
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Baxter 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-3 Location of headquartersBaxter's corporate headquarters is in  
Deerfield, Illinois.
102-4 Location of operations Baxter 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-5 Ownership and legal formBaxter International Inc. (BAX) is a publicly  
traded company listed on the New York  
Stock Exchange.
102-6 Markets served Baxter 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization Baxter 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-8Information on employees and other 
workers55
102-9 Supply chain 28, 54
102-10Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainBaxter 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 17, 30, 34
102-12 External initiatives Examples are included throughout this report.
102-13 Membership of associations We engage with external organizations to help 
drive progress on a broad range of issues. 
Examples include Advanced Medical Technology 
Association, Association of Corporate Citizenship 
Professionals, Boston College Center for 
Corporate Citizenship, Business Roundtable, 
Ceres Company Network, Chicago United, Clean 
Cargo, Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, 
GRI Community, Health Information Sharing and 
Analysis Center, Healthcare Businesswomen’s 
Association, Healthcare Leadership Council, 
Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council, Medical 
Device Innovation Consortium, MedTech Europe, 
National Association for EHS&S Management, 
National Minority Quality Forum, National 
Minority Supplier Development Council, ORC 
HSE, Partnership for Quality Medical Donations, 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative, 
Sustainable Healthcare Coalition, Vinyl Council of 
Australia and others.
Strategy 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3
Ethics and Integrity
102-16Values, principles, standards and norms  
of behavior20, 28, 37, 43, 45, 47, 51
102-17Mechanisms for advice and concerns  
about ethics442021 REPORTING 2021 REPORTING 2021 REPORTING
GRI 200 Economic Standard Series
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 36, 50, 53
201-1Direct economic value generated and 
distributed36, 50, 54, 55 , Baxter 2021 Annual Report on 
Form 10-K
201-2Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeBaxter CDP submission
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 15, 36, 50, 53
203-1Infrastructure investments and  
services supported15, 36
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 15, 36, 50
GRI 205: Anticorruption 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 43, 53
205-1Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruption44
205-2Communication and training about  
anticorruption policies and procedures43
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series
GRI 301: Materials 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 30, 32, 34, 53
301-3Reclaimed products and their  
packaging materials32
GRI 302: Energy 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 23, 53
302-1Energy consumption within the 
organization23, 54, 56
302-3 Energy intensity 54
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 23
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 25, 53
303-3 Water withdrawal 26, 54
303-4 Water discharge 54This index references information related to disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. The reported information may meet in part or in full the requirements of each GRI disclosure listed.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  62Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (continued)
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 20, 53
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 22, 54, 56
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 22, 54, 56
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 23, 54, 56
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 22, 54
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 23, 24
305-7Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX)  
and other significant air emissions55
GRI 306: Waste 2020 
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 31, 53
306-3 Waste generated  31, 54, 55
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 31, 55
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 31, 55
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 33
307-1Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulations33, 55
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 24, 28, 53
308-2Negative environmental impacts in the  
supply chain and actions taken24, 29, 54, 56
GRI 400 Social Standards Series
GRI 401: Employment 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 49, 53, Benefits
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 55
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees  
that are not provided to temporary or  
part-time employees49, Benefits   
All benefits are generally provided to full-time  
and part-time employees.
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding  
operational changesMinimum notice period varies by country. 
The length of the notice period is dependent 
on the type of change being made. Baxter is 
committed to providing appropriate notice 
and follows all relevant consultation and 
notice requirements.DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE 2021 REPORTING 2021 REPORTING 2021 REPORTING
GRI 400 Social Standards Series (continued)
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 39, 53
403-9 Work-related injuries 40, 55
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 53, Career Development
404-1Average hours of training per year  
per employee55
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills  
and transition assistance programs47, 49, Career Development
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 46, 53
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 55, Our Leadership
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 28, 53, Baxter Global Human Rights Policy , 
Baxter Code of Conduct, Baxter Supplier 
Quality Standard, Ethics and Compliance 
Standards for Baxter Suppliers
408-1Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of child labor29
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 28, 53, Baxter Global Human Rights Policy , 
Baxter Code of Conduct, Baxter Supplier 
Quality Standard, Ethics and Compliance 
Standards for Baxter Suppliers, Baxter 
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act 
Supplier Disclosure Statement, Baxter UK 
Modern Slavery Statement, Baxter Conflict 
Minerals Position Statement
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor29
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 28, 53
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply 
chain and actions taken29
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016Baxter 2021 Public Policy and Political 
Contributions Report
415-1 Political contributions Baxter 2021 Public Policy and Political 
Contributions ReportGRI 400 Social Standards Series (continued)
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 17, 34, 53
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 
impacts of product and service 
categories17
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
the health and safety impacts of products 
and servicesBaxter 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 51, 53
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016
GRI 103 Management Approach 2016 43
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations  
in the social and economic areaBaxter 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-KAppendix: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index (continued)Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  63Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
INTRODUCTION
1 As of Dec. 31, 2021. Approximately 10,000 of those employees joined Baxter in December 2021 as a result of our acquisition of Hillrom.
2 “Smart device” counts are based on internal estimates and include those devices that can collect and communicate data and are connected or connectable to a network. The 
approximate 2 million estimate (post-Hillrom acquisition) includes 1.3 million as previously disclosed by Hillrom at the JPMorgan Healthcare Conference on Jan. 15, 2020.  
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTMENT
1 Estimated energy and financial savings as well as GHG emissions avoidance are calculated for the 12 months following project implementation.
EMPOWER OUR PATIENTS
Reach More Underserved Kidney Patients
1 Liyanage, et al. Lancet . 2015; 385(9981)
2 Of the 30 countries with PD Ambassadors, 21 are developing countries.   
PROTECT OUR PLANET
Achieve Carbon Neutrality for Direct Operations by 2040
1 Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources we own or control, such as on-site fuel combustion. Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions associated with 
purchased electricity and steam for owned/controlled facilities. Baxter’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been verified by a third party to a reasonable assurance level (see 
verification statement ). The market-based method is used for Scope 2 unless otherwise stated. See Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions  for additional detail. 
2 The savings described in this paragraph are calculated on an annualized basis (12 months from each project completion date), though savings should continue beyond one year.
3 In 2021, we used biomass fuels to generate energy in boilers at two Baxter locations: one in the United States and one in Italy. During the year, emissions from the Baxter-
operated biomass boilers equaled 151,000 metric tons CO2. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, these are not included in reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. However, 
also in accordance with the GHG Protocol, we include CO2e emissions from the CH4 and N2O components of biomass combustion in our reported Scope 1 emissions.
4 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power Partnership Fortune 500 Partners List. As of Oct. 25, 2021.
5 The savings described below for projects in Haina, Dominican Republic, and Lessines, Belgium, are calculated on an annualized basis (12 months from each project 
completion date), though savings should continue beyond one year.
6 Participating manufacturing facilities are those with energy costs that exceed $200,000 per year.
7 This includes electricity, fuel and purchased steam consumed by Baxter-managed and Baxter-operated facilities; it excludes energy related to company-operated 
vehicles.
8 Estimated energy and financial savings as well as GHG emissions avoidance are calculated for the 12 months following project implementation.
9 Includes manufacturing facilities with energy costs that exceed $200,000 per year.
10 Baxter’s Scope 3 emissions relate to activities within the company’s value chain, but outside of our direct control. These emissions are based on various assumptions and estimates 
and are verified by a third party to a limited assurance level (see verification statement ). See Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions for detail . 
11 Includes Scope 1 and Scope 3 GHG emissions for product transport.
12 These savings are calculated on an annualized basis (12 months from the project completion date), though savings should continue beyond one year.
Implement Strategic Water Management Plans
1 One cubic meter equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.
2 The WRI water tool defines baseline water stress as total annual water withdrawals (municipal, industrial and agricultural) expressed as a percentage of total annual available 
flow. Higher values indicate more competition among users. 
 Low: Less than 10% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
 Low-Med: Between 10 and 20% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
 Med-High: Between 20 and 40% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
 High: Between 40 and 80% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
 Extremely High: More than 80% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
Advance Sustainable Procurement
1 These percentages do not add up to 100% due to rounding.
Implement Strategic Materials and Waste Management Plans
1 The savings described below for projects in Cuernavaca, Mexico, and Lessines, Belgium, are calculated on an annualized basis (12 months from each project completion date), 
though savings should continue beyond one year.
2 Certain waste streams at two facilities in Europe have government-mandated requirements. These waste streams are excluded from the total.Appendix: Endnotes
PROTECT OUR PLANET (CONTINUED )
Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability Governance and Additional Disclosures
1 The environmental data included in this report are based on 119 reporting locations, of which 51 are manufacturing, 20 are warehouse, and 48 are other types of locations, such 
as compounding centers, administrative or clerical. Several of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that report as a single entity. For example, in 2021, Baxter’s 45 renal 
therapy sites in Colombia reported as a single entity. The reporting scope excludes certain leased facilities for which environmental performance data are not available or are not 
material to Baxter’s overall environmental performance. The health and safety data included in this report are based on 214 reporting locations. The Environmental, Health, Safety 
and Sustainability (EHS&S) information reported covers 100% of Baxter’s operations unless noted otherwise. EHS&S data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant 
closings as well as to incorporate any corrections necessary due to additional data verification activities (such as EHS&S audits). Data were not revised to include Hillrom. See the 
Baxter Data Summary  for additional details.
2 For the purpose of this calculation, manufacturing includes pharmaceutical locations; and our sites in Sondalo, Italy, and Grosotto, Italy, are counted separately. Outside of 
manufacturing locations, the balance of 15 ISO certified sites also includes compounding (6), offices (5), planning and fulfillment (3), and research and development (1).
3 These audits consisted of 11 ISO external audits, 11 external compliance audits and 4 joint EHS&S & Engineering critical infrastructure reviews.
CHAMPION OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES
Invest in Underserved Communities Globally
1 Variations in Baxter’s annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory  environment, 
manufacturing processes and changes in product mix availability and marketing. We identify opportunities to donate and respond to community and humanitarian aid partner 
requests as appropriate. Value of products donated (provided at no cost) is provided by partners based on wholesale acquisition cost at the time of donation. This number may be 
greater or less than the value of Baxter products distributed during the year by our relief partners.
2 As of June 2022, based on an hourly rate of $29.95 per volunteer hour, as estimated by Independent Sector ( https://independentsector.org/value-of-volunteer-time-2021/ ); volunteer 
hours are self-reported by Baxter employees. 
3 Variations in Baxter’s annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory  environment, 
manufacturing processes and changes in product mix availability and marketing. We identify opportunities to donate and respond to community and humanitarian aid partner 
requests as appropriate. Value of products donated (provided at no cost) is provided by partners based on wholesale acquisition cost at the time of donation. This number may be 
greater or less than the value of Baxter products distributed during the year by our relief partners.
Achieve Top Quartile Workplace Safety Performance
1 Injuries Baxter is targeting to reduce in the near term include ergonomics; and slips, trips and falls.
2 Each year, profiles untouched for the previous three years are removed from the active database.
3 See Baxter Data Summary endnotes 24–27  for definitions of the injury and illness metrics used in this section.
4 Major incidents are defined as those that result in an employee or contractor being hospitalized overnight (for more than observation), sustaining an amputation or dying.
Increase Representation of Women and Ethnic Minorities in Leadership Roles
1 “Ethnic minorities,” within the context of our 2030 goal, refers to underrepresented minority groups in the United States, including Black/African American, Latino/Hispanic, Asian 
American, Native American and two or more races.
2 Our 2030 goals related to increasing the representation of women and ethnic minorities in leadership roles are based on assumptions about labor market conditions. “Labor market 
conditions” refers to the availability of talent in the marketplace in the communities where we operate and serve, and specifically looks at census data, as well as our internal 
pipeline. These labor market conditions can change over time so we will continue to monitor and adjust our goals as needed.
CROSS-CUTTING COMMITMENTS
Ethics and Compliance
1 Those who did not receive the questionnaire included (for example) shop floor employees, employees without Baxter email addresses, consultants, contractors and other service 
providers.  
2 The number of cases closed during any given year typically includes some cases opened before the beginning of the year.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
1 As of Dec. 31, 2021. Approximately 10,000 of those employees joined Baxter in December 2021 as a result of our acquisition of Hillrom. 
2 Calculations represent the Board’s composition on June 27, 2022.
3 Underrepresented groups: employee populations that are inadequately represented and disproportionately lower than in the general population (e.g., gender, race/ethnicity, 
disability, LGBTQ+, generation, veteran status).
4 Jan. 1, 2021, through Dec. 31, 2021. “Economic output” includes revenues earned by suppliers and businesses in the company’s supply chain and their communities. 
“Indirect” includes impacts at the businesses from which suppliers (and their suppliers) purchase goods and services. “Induced” includes impacts generated in the 
communities of the suppliers’ employees associated with purchases made by these employees and jobs supported through those purchases.
Privacy and Data Protection
1 Training is applied according to valid Baxter email. Employees without a Baxter email address, such as those in manufacturing, do not participate.Baxter 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report  64Appendix
2030 Corporate 
Responsibility GoalsCorporate Responsibility
CommitmentEmpower  
Our PatientsProtect  
Our PlanetChampion Our People 
and CommunitiesIntroductionCross-Cutting 
Commitments
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT FINDINGS
1 In this report, we are not using the terms “material” and “materiality” as defined for the purposes of financial and SEC reporting in the United States. Instead, the terms refer to 
environmental, social and economic issues that are of significant importance to our stakeholders and to the company. These “material” issues inform our corporate responsibility 
strategy, priorities and goals, and reporting. The issues in this table are listed in alphabetical order. The listing does not reflect the presumed importance or “materiality” of any 
particular issue to Baxter or our stakeholders.
BAXTER DATA SUMMARY
1 Excluding the Financial Performance section, metrics included in this Baxter Data Summary do not reflect Hillrom activity. 
2 Differences compared with data on FDA websites may be due to timeframe (the date Baxter takes an action may differ from the date FDA classifies that action), definition of “recall” 
(FDA data includes actions taken even if the product is not removed or corrected), and classification by product group vs. product code (FDA counts each impacted product code within a 
product family as a distinct recall).
3 Product Recall Rate is defined as the number of unique product codes corrected or removed from the market per total Baxter owned unique product codes sold globally.
4 As of 2021, Baxter had 55 FDA-registered establishments available for inspection.
5 The regional breakdown of the data included in this section reflects the structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) organization and the categorization 
of data in the EHS&S global information management system through 2021. Some data for 2019 and 2020 are updated from data reported in the Baxter 2020 Corporate Responsibility 
Report, to improve accuracy and in the case of GHG emissions to reflect updated GHG emission factors. Some totals vary from sum of items in category, due to rounding.
6 Excludes energy consumption associated with Baxter-operated mobile sources and renewable electricity generated on site.
7 Baxter’s Lean Energy Program began in 2007. Early in 2016, we introduced new Lean Energy Program requirements and updated some existing ones to better align the program with ISO 
50001 requirements for energy management. 
8 In some cases, segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding. Data may differ slightly from the totals stated in the Baxter Operations Total line of the Baxter Value Chain Energy 
Usage and GHG Emissions table due to rounding. 
9 Number includes Scope 3 emissions plus Scope 1 emissions for product transport. Some totals vary from sum of items in category, due to rounding.
10“Water usage ” aligns with the definition of “water withdrawal ” in GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018: “Sum of all water drawn from surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party 
for any use over the course of the reporting period. ” 
11 Water usage from Baxter’s 49 sites with the greatest use, representing 96% of the company’s total annual water usage. The WRI water tool defines baseline water stress as the total 
annual water withdrawals (municipal, industrial and agricultural) expressed as a percentage of the total annual available flow. Higher values indicate more competition among users. 
 Low—Less than 10% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually.  
 Low-Med—Between 10 and 20% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
 Med-High—Between 20 and 40% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
 High—Between 40 and 80% of the water available to agricultural, domestic and industrial users is withdrawn annually. 
 Extremely High—More than 80% of the water available to agricultural, domestic, and industrial users is withdrawn annually.
12 Estimated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways. Data do not include one facility that operates zero-discharge systems in accordance 
with local regulatory requirements. BOD 5 refers to five-day biological oxygen demand; COD refers to chemical oxygen demand; TSS refers to total suspended solids. When actual 
performance data were not available, estimates are based on performance at similar facilities or on other measured performance indicators. 
13 Fiscal year basis (Oct. 1 through Sept. 30 of the year noted).
14 United States and Puerto Rico. Data for 2019 and 2020 are fiscal year basis (Oct. 1 through Sept. 30 of the year noted). Data for 2021 are calendar year. Accounts payable data are sent 
to a third party, which categorizes spending. Other categories include disability-owned, service-disabled veteran–owned, LGBT-owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone-certified 
businesses. HUBZone is a U.S. Small Business Administration program for small companies that operate and employ people in Historically Underutilized Business Zones. Spending with 
suppliers that qualify for more than one category may be included in the totals for each of the relevant categories. 
15 Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations, since patients dispose of unused product rather than returning it to Baxter for disposal. Also excludes construction 
and demolition debris, remediation waste, wastewater treatment sludge and discarded manufacturing and process-related machinery or equipment. Removing these waste categories 
from the company total allows for more consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends over time.
16 Excludes production by-products reused on-site, construction and demolition debris, wastewater treatment and discarded manufacturing and process-related machinery or equipment. 
Includes discarded/returned products (such as intravenous solution, dextrose solution, etc.) that are nonhazardous in nature but may be classified as regulated in some countries. 
Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations, since patients dispose of unused product rather than returning it to Baxter for disposal.
17 Excludes waste recycled on-site, remediation waste, construction and demolition debris, and wastewater treatment sludge. Includes certain waste streams (such as waste oils, 
batteries, fluorescent lamps, light ballasts and asbestos) not classified as regulated in some locations. 
18 Values correspond to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) Program data reported for reporting years 2019 and 2020. It includes facilities in the 
continental United States and Puerto Rico only. Data for 2021 are not available as of report publication date. 
19 Includes air emissions associated with on-site energy generation. Emission factors from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency publication “Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission 
Factors,” AP-42, Fifth Edition, Volume 1: “Stationary Point and Area Sources.”
20 The Baxter 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report stated that Baxter received six Notices of Violation for 2020. During 2021, we received a cancellation notice for one of those Notices of 
Violation, so updated the 2020 value to five.
21 In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding.
22 Includes product donations as well as Patient Assistance Programs. Variations in Baxter’s annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume 
of disaster relief response, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and changes in product mix and marketing. We identify opportunities to donate and respond to 
community and humanitarian aid partner requests as appropriate. Value of products donated (provided at no cost) is provided by partners based on wholesale acquisition cost at the time 
of donation. This number may be greater or less than the value of Baxter products distributed during the year by our relief partners. See Invest in Underserved Communities Globally .
23 Contributions to U.S.-based 501(c)(3) organizations for programs within and outside of the United States. 
24 The regional breakdown of the data included in this section reflects the structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) organization and the categorization of 
data in the EHS&S global information management system through 2021.
25 Work-related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first aid, including cases with days lost. All rates based on 100 full-time employees working one year, which equals 
200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter follows U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping requirements worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury 
occurs and conflicting medical opinions arise as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, we record on the basis of the most authoritative physician’s 
opinion. We include occupational diseases and illnesses, such as hearing loss and ergonomic disorders, within our broader categories of cases, but do not track or report those items 
separately. Due to privacy regulations in our Europe, Middle East and Africa region, we do not classify or report injuries by gender. Supervised contracted employees are included in the 
injury statistics reported below and are not tracked separately. Independent contractors are not included in Baxter’s injury data, because they are supervised by other organizations.BAXTER DATA SUMMARY (CONTINUED )
26 Work-related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident.
27The number of days lost (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion due to work-related injuries or illnesses. We do not 
count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as lost days.
28 The number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is unable to work full duty (including weekends and 
holidays) due to a work-related injury or illness. We do not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as restricted days.
29 Americas includes the United States (with Puerto Rico), Canada and Latin America.
30 “Professional” includes individual contributors.
31 “Other” includes American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races.
32 “Technical/Clerical” includes employees in operational and administrative/clerical roles.
33 Scores indicate the percentage of survey participants who responded favorably to statements related to each of the categories listed. Baxter did not administer a Best Place to 
Work survey in 2020 due to impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
34 These data do not represent all employee training and development but do capture a large portion of training for most employees.
BAXTER VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS
1 Baxter used the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate emissions data from fossil fuel use. We 
used country electricity emission factors published by the International Energy Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) E-Grid U.S. regional electricity emission 
factors to calculate GHG emissions related to electricity consumption.
2 Apex Companies, LLC verified to a reasonable level Baxter’s 2019–2021 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Apex Companies, LLC also verified to a limited level Baxter’s 
methodology for determining 2019–2021 Scope 3 GHG emissions.
3 Some data for 2019 and 2020 are updated from data reported in the Baxter 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report for accuracy and to reflect updated GHG emission factors. 
4 We used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition to determine GHG emissions associated with using biomass fuel, 
principally wood/wood waste, as a boiler fuel at two Baxter locations. These emissions were calculated as 152,000, 149,000 and 151,000 metric tons CO 2 in 2019, 2020 and 
2021, respectively. CO 2e emissions from CH 4 and N 2O components of biomass combustion are included in reported Scope 1 emissions.
5 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions associated with reported fuel usage by company-managed sales and distribution fleet vehicles and other 
vehicles. We estimated fuel usage for international sales and distribution vehicles based on regional sales information.
6 Refrigerant emissions represent reported CFC, HCFC and HFC refrigerant losses by each Baxter location. We calculated associated GHG emissions using actual emission 
factors for each reported refrigerant. 
7 Includes the purchase of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable electricity (Belgium, Brazil, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and 
United States).
8 Estimated based on an environmentally extended input-output model from an independent third party and Baxter’s revenue and sector of operation.
9 Estimated based on capital expenditures and the machinery and equipment emission factor from Table 13 - Indirect emissions from the Supply Chain, UK Government 
Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs.
10 Estimated based on Baxter’s actual yearly energy usage by energy type and GHG emission factors for each energy type per GaBi life cycle assessment software.
11 Estimated based on shipment of products to our customers using the EcoTransIT World Software that is compliant with the GHG Protocol and the Global Logistics Emissions 
Council Framework. 
12 Estimated emissions for wastewater treatment by municipalities and off-site waste recycling and disposal based on Baxter’s waste generation by type, UK Government GHG 
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and the U.S. EPA WARM model.
13 Estimated based on domestic and international air mileage, rental vehicle CO 2e emissions or mileage, and hotel room stays provided by Baxter’s global travel providers, 
and personal vehicle mileage. Emission factors from UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, Greenhouse Gas Protocol Mobile Combustion GHG 
Emissions Calculation Tool, and Carbonfund.org Business Travel Calculator.
14 Estimated based on the number of Baxter employees by country and statistics on commuting time and transport mode split into public transport, passenger cars, taxi and 
motorcycle, and walking or bicycling. Emission factors for each mode were obtained from Defra. 
15 Emissions associated with upstream leased assets are included in Baxter’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
16 Estimated based on previous Baxter product LCAs as well as the company’s revenue by product type. Category 1 emissions were extrapolated to other categories depending 
on the product type.
17 Estimated based on an environmentally extended input-output model from an independent third party and revenue from Baxter’s contract services business.
18 Estimated based on production quantities and global warming potential information for certain types of products. Emissions for certain other products estimated based on 
previous Baxter product LCAs as well as the company’s revenue by product type. Category 1 emissions were extrapolated to other categories depending on the product type.
19 Totals do not include CO 2 emissions from Baxter-owned wood-fired boilers. See endnote 4 above for detail.
BAXTER FACILITIES WITH ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 50001 AND GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS
1 As of Dec. 31, 2021.
2 Facilities transitioned to ISO 45001 from OHSAS 18001.
3 The building with green certification noted is one of several buildings at the designated location.
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD INDEX
1 Differences compared with data on FDA websites may be due to timeframe (the date Baxter takes an action may differ from the date FDA classifies that action), definition of “recall” 
(FDA data includes actions taken even if the product is not removed or corrected), and classification by product group vs. product code (FDA counts each impacted product code within 
a product family as a distinct recall).Appendix: Endnotes (continued)Baxter International Inc. 
One Baxter Parkway 
Deerfield, Illinois 60015-4625
USA
www.baxter.com
© Baxter International Inc., 2022. All rights reserved.
References in this report to Baxter are intended to refer collectively to Baxter International Inc. and its U.S. and international subsidiaries.
Baxter, Baxter Renal Care Services, Caelyx, Dose IQ, Doxil, MyKidneyJourney, Novum IQ, PerClot, PrisMax, Seprafilm, Sharesource, 
Spectrum IQ, Theranova and Transderm Scop are trademarks owned by or licensed to Baxter International Inc. or its subsidiaries. 
Contrafluran is a trademark of ZeoSys GmbH.
Any other trademarks, products or brand images appearing herein are the property of their respective owners. • 100 Best Corporate Citizens  
3BL Media
• Climate Change, Score B  
CDP
• Water Security, Score B  
CDP
• Best Place to Work for  
Disability Inclusion  
Disability:IN & the American  
Association of People with 
Disabilities
• Gold Sustainability Rating  
EcoVadis
• America’s Best Employers  
for Diversity  
Forbes
• Best Employers for Women  
Forbes
• World's Best Employers  
Forbes
• World’s Top Female-Friendly 
Companies  
Forbes
• FTSE4Good Index Series  
FTSE RussellSELECT RECOGNITION HIGHLIGHTS (AS OF JUNE 2022 )
Cover Photo:   
Baxter employees in Colombia 
volunteer on land around river 
basins as part of the “Agua 
para Todos (Water for all)” 
project that seeks to protect 
and restore the ecosystems of 
the Arroyohondo and Cali River 
Basins.
RECOGNITION
Baxter is proud to be recognized by numerous organizations and publications 
globally. These examples of our recent accomplishments highlight Baxter 
as an employer of choice, as a company that works to nurture a diverse, 
equitable and inclusive workplace, and as a socially and environmentally 
responsible business. In addition, the company receives many regional and 
country-specific recognitions around the globe that are not listed here.
• Corporate Equality Index  
Human Rights Campaign Foundation
• America’s Most JUST Companies  
JUST Capital 
• America’s Most Responsible 
Companies  
Newsweek
• Dow Jones Sustainability Indices  
(DJSI)  
S&P Global
• 100 Best Companies  
Seramount
• Best Companies for Dads  
Seramount
• Global Inclusion Index  
Seramount
• Leading Inclusion Index  
Seramount
• Top Companies for Executive Women  
Seramount  
• Best Companies for Multicultural  
Women  
Seramount
• Management Top 250  
The Wall Street Journal