MAKING A 
 MEANIN GFUL 
 DIFF ERENCE
2019 CORPORATE   
RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
2
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
3  INTRODUCTION
3 From the Chairman and CEO
4 Company Profile
5 Corporate Responsibility
7  BAXTER 2020  
 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
 PRIORITIES AND GOALS 
9 PRODUCT INNOVATION
9 Patient Safety and Quality
11 Sustainable Design
12 Materials Use
13 Product End-of-Life
15 WORKPLACE CULTURE
15 Global Inclusion and Diversity
18 Employee Engagement
19 Compensation and Benefits
19 Workplace Flexibility
20 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE 
20 Companywide Accountability
21 Ethics and Compliance Training
21 Third Party Program
21 Compliance Assessments
21 Compliance Monitoring
22 Relationships With Healthcare  
 Professionals and Government Officials
22 Ethics and Compliance Helpline
22 Privacy and Data Protection 
23 EMPLOYEE HEALTH  
 AND SAFETY
23 Injury and Illness Performance
24 Injuries and Major Incidents
24 Driving a Culture of Safety  
 and Engagement
24 Health and Wellness Program  
 Management and Initiatives25 OPERATIONS
26 Energy
27 Water and Wastewater
28 Waste
28 GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain
29 GHG Emissions From Operations
29 Air Emissions
30 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT   
 AND LOGISTICS
30 Responsible Procurement
33 Green Logistics
34 INNOVATION THAT EXPANDS   
 ACCESS TO CARE
34 Product Donations 
35 The Baxter International Foundation
36 Collaborating to Improve Healthcare
38 SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES
38 Supporting Access to Clean Water  
 and Community Wellness
39 Fostering Tomorrow’s Innovation  
 Through STEM
39 #BaxterGivesBack:   
 Employee Volunteerism and Giving
40 Summary of 2019 Giving
41 APPENDIX
41 About This Report and Recognition
42 2018 Materiality Assessment Findings
43 Baxter Data Summary
45 Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
 and GHG Emissions
46 Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001,  
 OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001  
 and Green Building Certifications
47 Independent Assurance Statement
48 Global Reporting Initiative Index
51 EndnotesAssurance and Verification 
Apex Companies LLC (Apex) verified 
Baxter’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas 
emissions. See verification statement . 
Apex also assured the following sections of the report: 
• Product Innovation (except Patient Safety  
and Quality) 
• Employee Health and Safety 
• Operations 
• Responsible Procurement and Logistics 
• Baxter World Environment Week content in the 
Serving Our Communities section 
• Related material in the Appendix: Baxter Data  
Summary ; Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and   
GHG Emissions ; and Baxter Facilities with   
ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and Green   
Building Certifications  
See assurance statements in English  and Spanish . 
Most of the financial data included in the Baxter  
Data Summary  are taken from the audited 
consolidated financial statements contained in 
the Baxter International Inc. 2019 Annual Report . 
These financial statements are audited by Baxter’s 
independent registered public accounting firm, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
3
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
FROM THE  
CHAIRMAN AND CEO
While this report focuses on our corporate responsibility 
efforts in 2019, I write this letter in 2020, amid historic 
developments in public health and social justice. 
Baxter’s Mission is to Save and Sustain Lives, and our 
medically essential products have placed us on the front 
lines of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Consistent with 
our values as a corporate citizen, we are doing everything 
we can to support the patients, clinicians and communities 
that depend on us. This starts with prioritizing the health 
and safety of our 50,000 Baxter colleagues, who have 
stepped up to make a world-spanning difference for 
our stakeholders. We have maximized production of key 
products in the face of surging demand and expedited 
shipping to get those products where they are urgently 
needed. Meanwhile, the Baxter International Foundation 
has provided more than $2 million (as of this writing) in 
financial support toward humanitarian relief.We have also witnessed horrendous racial violence 
against the Black community in the United States and 
social unrest in its aftermath. As a global corporation,  
it is incumbent on us to do what we can to fight racism 
in all its forms around the world. Our leadership team 
is accountable for role modeling inclusive leadership 
and has pledged to listen, learn and take action . 
Baxter will continue to harness the power of diversity  
in support of our mission. 
Our response on both of these fronts reflects the 
dedication to corporate responsibility that has defined 
and guided Baxter for decades. That same dedication 
is reflected in the following pages, recapping our 2019 
progress. Among the highlights:
• We continue to advance diversity and inclusion among 
employees, and are working to close representation 
gaps at the executive level.
• We have reduced absolute greenhouse gas emissions 
by 15% compared with 2015, exceeding our goal of a 
10% decrease by 2020.
• We closed the combined Warning Letter issued by 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration for our Marion 
(North Cove), North Carolina, and Jayuya, Puerto Rico, 
facilities. We are also making steady progress to close 
out our single remaining Warning Letter, relating to 
our Ahmedabad, India, facility, which we acquired 
from Claris Injectables in July 2017.
• We achieved Baxter’s lowest-ever recordable incident 
rate for illness or injury: 0.39, a 5% improvement 
versus 2018 and a 49% improvement compared  
with 2015.• To improve access to healthcare for the underserved,  
we opened our second Baxter Renal Care Services  
clinic in China. The new Chengdu facility, like the one  
in Xiamen, offers extensive patient education and  
access to leading dialysis care options.
• Our Foundation launched two multiyear signature 
partnerships, investing nearly $3 million to support  
safe surgery for cleft conditions and promote nutrition 
to help prevent diabetes. 
Our efforts have been fueled by a multiyear 
transformation that continues to reinvigorate Baxter’s 
culture and performance. It has sparked leading-
edge innovation, enhanced operational excellence and 
bolstered our standing as a great place to work. It has 
also fostered a renewed strength and agility, which is 
helping us navigate the impact of COVID-19.
As we near completion of our 2020 Corporate Responsibility 
Priorities and Goals, we are also finalizing our 2025 goals. 
These will reflect closer alignment with additional global 
frameworks including the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals as well as approaches such as science-
based GHG emissions reduction targets. We look forward to 
formally announcing our 2025 goals in the coming year.
I salute the passion and determination of our Baxter 
employees around the world. No matter how the 
landscape evolves, they power our focus on creating 
lasting social, environmental and economic value for  
our diverse stakeholder base.
JOSÉ (JOE) E. ALMEIDA    |   Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
4
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTCOMPANY PROFILE
Every day, millions of patients and caregivers rely on 
Baxter's leading portfolio of critical care, nutrition, renal, 
hospital and surgical products. For more than 85 years, 
we’ve been operating at the critical intersection where 
innovations that save and sustain lives meet the healthcare 
providers that make it happen. Our corporate responsibility 
activities are fundamental to our ability to deliver on this 
mission as we grow our business sustainably and strive 
to meet the needs of all our stakeholders, including our 
employees, the communities where we operate, and the 
patients, clinicians and caregivers who rely on our products. 
Baxter’s heritage and broad geographic reach provide a 
distinct perspective on the needs of the global healthcare 
system. We continue to lead by applying those insights to 
deliver new, enhanced healthcare solutions and improved 
access to care. We have a longstanding commitment to research and development (R&D) and a rich history of 
medical firsts, from the first commercially manufactured IV 
solutions to the first portable kidney dialysis machine, and 
many more. Each of our 50,0001 employees is dedicated 
to ensuring that Baxter is there when and where patients 
need care—from hospitals to clinics and homes, in rural 
areas and major cities around the world. 
We will continue to transform and increase access to 
care by seeking out the next generation of innovators in 
healthcare, investing in the pursuit of new discoveries and 
research, and partnering with world-renowned institutions 
to further our impact. We underpin this work with a 
commitment to conduct our business with integrity, grow a 
more diverse and inclusive workforce, increase operational 
efficiency and innovate more sustainable products. 
Global Presence
Baxter's products, technologies and therapies are  
available in more than 100 countries across three 
geographic segments: the Americas (including North and 
South America); Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); 
and Asia Pacific (APAC). Our corporate headquarters is 
located in Deerfield, Illinois. R&D is conducted at centers 
in Belgium, China, Germany, India, Italy, Sweden and 
the United States. Our products are manufactured in 
approximately 50 facilities across more than 20 countries. 
Each of the company’s business units provides a broad 
portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies, sterile IV solutions, infusion 
systems and devices, parenteral nutrition therapies, 
inhaled anesthetics, generic injectable pharmaceuticals, 
and surgical hemostat and sealant products.
Innovation
Baxter is innovating to bring smarter, more personalized 
care to the world. Our investments accelerate the 
introduction of new technologies and therapies for 
patients and providers. Our efforts are bolstered by 
partnerships with experts in medicine, digital health 
and the broader healthcare industry who diversify our 
discovery process. Baxter’s robust product pipeline will 
help clinicians be more efficient and effective as they 
treat patients across multiple care settings, including the 
hospital bedside, operating room and intensive care unit 
as well as the dialysis clinic and at home. 
We are working alongside our partners to find new 
ways to increase access to care, improve patient 
outcomes, prevent complications before they become 
life-threatening, and lessen the overall cost of care. 
In 2020 and beyond, we expect to introduce several 
innovations to improve care for patients around the world, 
including expanded infusion pump offerings, enhanced 
data analytics on our Sharesource  platform to support 
improved patient care and shared decision-making, a 
noninvasive hemodynamic monitoring system to measure 
patients’ fluid status, generic injectable drug offerings in 
novel delivery platforms and more.100+Products 
available in
countries~50 ,000
employees worldwide20+Manufacturing 
facilities in
countries
Europe, 
Middle East 
and AfricaAmericasAsia Pacific
$11.4 B20%
26%54%REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT, 2019
Clinical Nutrition$0.9 B
Renal Care$3.6 B
Pharmaceuticals$2.2 B
Advanced Surgery$0.9 B
Acute Therapies$0.5 B
Medication Delivery$2.8 BREVENUE BY GLOBAL BUSINESS UNIT, 2019*
*Sales and related figures represent fiscal year 2019; other sales represent ~$0.5B.Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
5
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTCORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY 
Corporate responsibility is integral to Baxter’s business 
strategy. Throughout our history, employees worldwide have 
championed company values in support of our mission to 
save and sustain lives. 
Our approach to corporate responsibility supports our 
company’s goals to achieve top quartile results relative to 
industry peers and other comparators across four dimensions:
          Patient safety and Quality 
          Growth through innovation
          Best place to work
          Industry-leading performance
We are committed to sharing information about progress 
we’re making toward our 2020 corporate responsibility
priorities and goals , which have a 2015 baseline. This 
annual Corporate Responsibility Report illustrates 
our commitment to sound governance and balanced, 
transparent disclosure.
Driving Business Value
Our corporate responsibility strategy focuses on driving 
business value by addressing the environmental, social, 
economic and governance issues that matter most 
to our company and stakeholders. Our strategy also 
addresses the key risk factors that may impact the 
long-term sustainability of our business. Following is a 
representative sample of how advancing our corporate 
responsibility goals contributes to business value: 
Employee attraction and retention     Our global 2019  
Best Place to Work survey showed improved scores  
across all categories, including in the areas of engagement 
and inclusion, which are critical to Baxter’s innovation  
and success. In 2019, our overall engagement score was 
five percentage points above the global average.2  
See Transforming Company Culture .  Operational efficiency     During 2019, we implemented 
155 energy conservation projects that saved $4.1 million 
and 174.5 trillion joules of energy on an annual basis, 
avoiding 12,600 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent of 
greenhouse gas emissions. See Energy .
License to operate     Maintaining global strategies and 
programs to help ensure that we meet privacy regulations 
such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation; 
human rights-related legislation such as the California 
Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010; and product 
materials restrictions such as the EU RoHS Directive, 
EU REACH Regulation and EU Medical Devices Regulation 
supports our continued access to key markets. See 
Privacy and Data Protection , Protecting Human Rights   
in Our Supply Chain  and Materials of Concern .
Risk reduction     Ongoing reduction in product complaints 
(down 21% compared with 2015) as well as improvements 
on other quality-related metrics enhances patient safety 
and decreases risks of regulatory actions. See Patient
Safety and Quality .
Governance     The diversity of background and experience 
represented by our Board of Directors provides key 
insights for corporate responsibility and strategic 
initiatives, operational performance and financial control. 
See Our Leadership .
Reputation     Maintaining high ethical standards, 
ensuring strong labor and environmental practices in 
our supply chain, and supporting communities where 
we have an operational presence all contribute to our 
reputation as a leading corporate citizen. See Ethics and  
Compliance , Responsible Procurement and Logistics  
and Serving Our Communities . 
Revenue     Innovation to enhance patient safety and  
product quality drives our ability to meet patient needs 
and ultimately improve health outcomes. Customers 
increasingly consider environmental and social 
performance in proposal reviews and purchasing decisions. 
In addition, our efforts to expand access to care, particularly 
in the renal space for underserved markets, open up new 
opportunities for revenue growth. See Product Innovation  
and Innovation That Expands Access to Care .Corporate Responsibility Governance  
and Management
Baxter’s Corporate Responsibility Council is composed 
of executives and subject matter experts from across the 
company. The Council, which meets quarterly, leads our  
efforts to integrate corporate responsibility throughout our 
business and ensures high standards of accountability for  
the management of our priorities and goals.
The Council’s role is to: 
• Set and advance our corporate responsibility  
strategy and culture 
• Establish, implement and track progress against our 
corporate responsibility priorities and goals 
• Provide oversight and drive organizational accountability 
• Deliver annual updates to our Board of Directors 
• Solicit and review stakeholder input on Baxter's  
corporate responsibility programs, priorities, goals,  
and disclosure as well as broader industry trendsPROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS
Human rights are foundational to Baxter's corporate 
responsibility strategy, and we have policies and 
processes in place to protect human rights across 
our value chain, including the rights of our suppliers’ 
workers, our employees, our customers and the 
patients who rely on our products. As outlined in 
our Global Human Rights Policy , we respect the 
human rights, dignity and diverse contributions of 
all individuals. Fostering human rights takes many 
forms at our company and is reflected in our policies 
and initiatives in areas including workplace inclusion , 
employee safety , supply chain labor practices ,  
ethical conduct , access to healthcare , and patient,  
employee and customer privacy .Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
6
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTStakeholder Engagement
Baxter collaborates with a broad range of stakeholders  
to inform our corporate responsibility strategy, 
gain global insight into product use and possible 
improvements, and identify opportunities for strategic 
growth and innovation. We identify and engage with 
stakeholders based on their expertise, level of influence, 
willingness to collaborate, impact on Baxter and our 
company's impact on them.
In 2019, Ceres, a sustainability nonprofit organization, 
reviewed our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 
and provided recommendations for strengthening 
our disclosure for 2019 and beyond. This builds on 
stakeholder engagement they have facilitated for Baxter in recent years. Based on that feedback, we have made 
several changes in this 2019 report, including: 
• Providing additional clarity related to overall  
progress toward our 2020 corporate responsibility  
priorities and goals  
• Describing how our corporate responsibility  
initiatives drive business value at Baxter
• Including multiple years of Supplier Corporate  
Responsibility Survey  scores to illustrate trends  
over time
Additionally, in response to stakeholder interest and to 
further increase transparency in our reporting, we are 
planning on a future disclosure related to the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board Medical Equipment and 
Supplies Sustainability Accounting Standard.Materiality
To understand and prioritize issues that are critical to the 
long-term sustainability of our business, we periodically 
conduct assessments to identify the corporate 
responsibility issues that are most relevant to Baxter and 
our stakeholders. Outcomes from these assessments 
inform our corporate responsibility priorities and strategy. 
In 2018, working with an external partner, we updated our 
corporate responsibility “materiality” assessment3 from 
2015 and verified and refined our list of material issues. 
A list of our material issues and their impacts across our 
value chain can be found in the Appendix  of this report. 
For more information about the process we undertook 
and the key findings of our 2018 assessment, see page 6 
of our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report . GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BAXTER
Chairman and CEO
Executive Co-Sponsors 
 SVP and President, Americas             SVP, Chief Supply Chain Officer
Chair
VP, Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability
Corporate Responsibility Council (Members/Goal Owners)
Corporate Responsibility Working GroupSVP, Global 
CommunicationsVP, Investor 
RelationsGeneral Manager, 
Medication DeliveryGeneral Manager, 
Renal Care
Chief Procurement 
OfficerVP, Planning and 
Fulfillment
VP, Global
EngineeringVP, Global 
Patient SafetyVP, HR—Americas, 
GBUs, and R&DVP, Finance— 
Operations and QualityDeputy General Counsel and 
Chief Compliance Officer
VP, U.S. Hospital  
ProductsVP, 
QualityCommunities
Shareholders
Patients/
Healthcare 
ProvidersGovernments/
PayersEmployeesBAXTER'S FIVE PRIMARY STAKEHOLDER GROUPS7
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
GOALS PRIORITIES PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 STATUSBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES AND GOALS
This table summarizes progress through 2019 on our 2020 goals, which were introduced in the 2015 Baxter Corporate Responsibility Report. The baseline is 2015 unless otherwise stated.
WORKPLACE  
CULTURE
Promote inclusion,  
diversity and  
employee engagement
ETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE  
Drive a culture of 
integrity and the highest 
ethical behavior
EMPLOYEE HEALTH 
AND SAFETY 
Achieve a zero-harm 
workplace and improve 
employee well-beingPRODUCT 
INNOVATION 
Improve sustainability 
and performance of 
products and servicesAchieve at least 15% material reduction on three 
therapies/products compared to those currently 
on the market, without affecting efficacyEnhance product quality and patient safety by 
achieving a 15% reduction in product complaints, 
compared to 2015 (aggregate) 
Eliminate 3,000 metric tons of packaging material 
from Baxter products shipped to customers
Eliminate or minimize the presence of  
chemicals of concern (as defined by regulations) 
in new products
Partner with organizations to implement 
recycling of product waste at hospitals and 
increase participation from 60 hospitals to 200
Aspire to diversity in leadership at or 
above benchmarks 
Achieve an employee engagement score 
comparable to top quartile companies as 
measured by Baxter’s Best Place to Work survey
Drive highest integrity and compliance to achieve 
zero government enforcement actions over 
compliance issues 
Achieve overall compliance culture scores in the 
top quartile of general industry benchmarks 
Achieve the top quartile in total recordable 
incident rate among global companies across all 
industries as measured by ORC HSEBaxter launched two therapies/products in 2019 that reduced materials use by at least 
15%, raising the total number to six since 2015. The company achieved a 21% decrease in product complaints compared with 2015.
We eliminated 385 metric tons of packaging material from products shipped to 
customers in 2019, reaching a total of 1,979 metric tons eliminated since 2016.1
Baxter screens all new products under development and changes existing products 
and processes to eliminate or reduce chemicals of concern. During 2019, this included 
reducing cyclohexanone use during container manufacturing, evaluating PVC alternatives 
and determining ways to potentially eliminate the use of DEHP plasticizers in products.
We increased the number of hospitals and facilities with recycling programs for some of 
Baxter’s products from 259 in 2018 to 349 in 2019. 
At most career levels, we remained at or above external benchmarks for women 
(globally) and ethnic minority representation (in the United States) during 2019. We 
continue to focus on closing gender and ethnic minority gaps at executive levels.  
During 2019, our score in the engagement category of Baxter's Best Place to Work survey 
increased by 2 percentage points compared with 2018. Our score was 5 percentage points 
above the global average, and 3 percentage points below the top quartile benchmark.2
Baxter had zero corruption-related enforcement actions in 2019. On October 24, 2019, 
Baxter reported that it had commenced an internal investigation into certain  
intra-company transactions that impacted our previously reported non-operating  
foreign exchange gains and losses. Baxter’s internal investigation, as it pertains to 
the evaluation of related financial statement impacts, is complete. Baxter voluntarily 
advised the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of its internal 
investigation and is continuing to cooperate with the staff of the SEC. We published 
restated financial information on March 17, 2020.
During 2019, Baxter achieved favorable ratings on the two employee survey questions related  
to ethics culture. The scores for the two questions improved compared with 2018 and were  
1 percentage point above and 2 percentage points below top quartile companies, respectively.2
Reduce employee health risk by increasing 
participation from 35% to 45% in BeWell@Baxter 
health promotion program initiatives and by 
expanding family participationDuring 2019, Baxter recorded an average employee participation rate of 47% in  
BeWell @Baxter health promotion program initiatives (which include the Personal 
Wellness Profile, the Exercise Challenge and Healthy Eating Month)—compared with 
38% in 2018 and surpassing our goal.In a comparison of 32 global companies across all industries,3 Baxter’s total recordable 
incident rate in 2019 ranked eighth, or in the top 25%, achieving our goal.
Our 2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals support Baxter's top quartile goals, which include:Patient safety 
and QualityGrowth through 
innovationBest place 
to workIndustry-leading 
performance
7 BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTAchieved
Achieved
Achieved
Achieved
AchievedOn track
On track
On trackOn trackNeeds attentionNeeds attention8
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
GOALS PRIORITIES STATUS PROGRESS THROUGH 2019
Reduce total energy and water use and total 
waste generation by 15% indexed to revenue
Reduce absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions by 10%Pursue zero waste-to-landfill by achieving  
a landfill diversion rate of 95% or higher at all 
manufacturing locations
Increase Baxter’s spending with diverse 
suppliers by 50%, from 4% of relevant spending 
in 2015 to 6% in 20206 
Expand green transport partnerships with 
government agencies, nongovernmental 
organizations and/or private companies from one 
business region to all business regions globally
Proactively pre-position Baxter’s donated 
products with donor partners, which will enable 
them to optimally distribute and be first on 
scene to address critical medical needs
Establish the Baxter International Foundation 
Partnership Grant program in 2016 to drive 
increased access to healthcare for an incremental 
10,000 patients annually
Launch two new emerging market business 
models in Baxter’s renal business
Complete two projects, including one by 2018, 
that support access to clean water or enhance 
sanitation in water-stressed areas where Baxter 
has an operational presenceThrough 2019, Baxter reduced energy use by 9%, water use by 8% and total waste 
generation5 by 10%, all indexed to revenue and compared with 2015.
Baxter reduced absolute GHG emissions by 15% through 2019 compared with 2015, 
exceeding our goal.21 manufacturing sites,4 representing 40% of the total, achieved landfill diversion 
rates of 95% or higher through 2019.
Baxter increased purchases with diverse suppliers to 5.2% of relevant spending 
during 2019.
As of the end of 2019, Baxter is participating in green transport partnerships in all 
three regions, including participation in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's 
SmartWay program as both a Carrier and Shipper Partner and partnering with UPS 
to use carbon credits to offset all our UPS shipping outside the United States.
In 2019, Baxter donated products valued at nearly $17 million. Additionally, our partners 
distributed our products across 71 countries in response to disasters and to support 
ongoing humanitarian aid and medical missions. This is part of our manufacture-to-
donate program, an industry best practice, launched in 2016 to pre-position our products.
Our Driving Your Health grant ended in 2019, having benefited 85,400 people directly 
since 2016. We also launched two multiyear signature partnerships, investing  
nearly $3 million to support safe surgery for cleft conditions and promote nutrition  
to help prevent diabetes.
In 2019, we opened a new Baxter Renal Care Services  clinic in Chengdu, China,  
in partnership with a major local medical device supplier. In Indonesia, our pilot clinic, 
launched in 2018, had more than 50 patients at the end of 2019 and was the fastest 
growing peritoneal dialysis program in the country.
We have implemented two projects in support of this goal: A partnership with Fundación 
Solar in Guatemala (established 2017) and Project Srujal in Ahmedabad, India 
(established 2018). We consider a project successful once it has launched and we have 
made a long-term commitment to local communities to enhance water and sanitation.RESPONSIBLE 
PROCUREMENT 
AND LOGISTICS  
Implement world-
class sustainability 
practices with  
key partners
INNOVATION 
THAT EXPANDS 
ACCESS TO CARE
Improve access  
to healthcare for  
the underserved
SERVING OUR 
COMMUNITIES  
Support communities 
worldwide in 
enduring waysOPERATIONS 
Reduce environmental 
footprint through 
increased efficiency 
and resource 
conservationBAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES AND GOALS
This table summarizes progress through 2019 on our 2020 goals, which were introduced in the 2015 Baxter Corporate Responsibility Report. The baseline is 2015 unless otherwise stated.
8 BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTOur 2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals support Baxter's top quartile goals, which include:Patient safety 
and QualityGrowth through 
innovationBest place 
to workIndustry-leading 
performanceOn track
AchievedAchieved
Achieved
Achieved
Achieved
AchievedNeeds attentionNeeds attentionBAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT9
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section (except the Patient Safety and Quality subsection).
Baxter develops products that save and sustain lives worldwide, delivering on our mission and representing our 
most important contribution to society. Our commitment to patient safety and quality is integral to innovations that 
improve the experiences of patients and caregivers who use our products. By integrating sustainability into our product 
development approach, we consider the full life cycle of our products from design through end-of-life. 
Patient Safety and Quality
Patient safety and product quality are fundamental to 
fulfilling our mission and ongoing success. We have 
extensive policies and processes to ensure excellence in 
these areas, and we continue to innovate new products 
and services that enhance patient safety and drive 
improved patient outcomes. We take a holistic, innovative 
approach to quality across the product life cycle.
Building on years of insight, 
our approach to patient safety 
and product performance is 
driven by our commitment to 
continuous improvement. In 2019, 
we continued to make progress 
on complaint reduction (21% 
decrease compared with 2015)  
as well as improvements on  
other quality-related metrics  
(see graphic on the following page).2019 HIGHLIGHTS
PRODUCT 
INNOVATION
Improve sustainability and 
performance of products  
and services* Compared with 2015.    ** This represents the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company since 2016, counted only for the first year the packaging  
innovation was implemented.
2020 GOAL
Reduce 
product 
complaints 
by 15%
Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSINTEGRATED APPROACH TO SAFETY AND QUALITY
Patient Safety and 
Product QualityFacility Quality 
and Control
Quality Systems
Performancereduction in 
product 
complaints*21%
hospitals and facilities 
with recycling programs 
for some of Baxter's 
products349
metric tons of 
packaging 
material 
eliminated **1,979BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT10
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Internal review    We employ a global Product Quality 
Data Review process that enables a consistent, multi-
tiered approach to technical evaluations, helping identify necessary improvements at the individual product level. 
During 2019, we also instituted formal Global Business 
Unit (GBU) Management Reviews to monitor and improve 
visibility to performance across our portfolio. These cross-
functional, strategic reviews provide our GBU leadership 
with a greater understanding of product performance for 
continuous improvement.
Warning Letters    Since 2015, we have worked to resolve 
six U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Warning 
Letters. In 2019, the combined Warning Letter issued in 
May 2013 for the Marion (North Cove), North Carolina, and 
Jayuya, Puerto Rico, facilities was lifted. We continue to 
make steady progress toward FDA removal of the single 
remaining Warning Letter issued in July 2018 relating 
to our Ahmedabad, India, facility we acquired from 
Claris Injectables in July 2017. We are preparing for a 
re-inspection of our Ahmedabad facility.
Partnerships with regulatory bodies    Our relationships 
with regulatory bodies continue to grow and become 
more strategic. In 2017, we joined an innovative FDA 
pilot aimed at measuring and advancing our culture of 
quality at two of our U.S. sites. That program has since expanded to encompass 10 of our plants globally that 
manufacture devices regulated by FDA (i.e., plants  
that import into the United States). In addition, we 
have transformed our engagement with FDA into one 
of true partnership—actively engaging in, leading and/
or governing a handful of strategic efforts with FDA 
programs, including Case for Quality, Medical Device 
Information Analysis and Sharing, and Digital Evidence. 
Through our work with these programs, we are leading 
efforts to increase patient safety by encouraging  
the industry to go beyond minimum compliance  
and being proactive in controlling the development  
and manufacture of products to ensure the lowest 
possible risk to patients. 
We have also established a strategic approach to 
quality improvements on a global scale by working 
with regulators worldwide1 to improve practices and 
regulations related to the visual inspection of flexible 
containers, such as IV bags. These improvements help 
ensure that flexible containers are free of contaminants 
and that the related regulations are efficient and 
effective, leading to increased patient safety and 
sizeable cost savings. 20%
reductionComplaint 
incidents
82%
reductionField alert 
reports
48%
reductionField 
actions
76%
reductionMedical device 
reports
21%
reductionComplaintsPROGRESS FROM 2015 TO 2019 *
* "Complaints" are any allegations related to the identity, quality, durability, reliability, 
usability, safety, effectiveness or performance of a product. “Complaint incidents” are 
the number of alleged product defects globally identified within product complaints. 
“Medical device reports” are reports submitted to U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) of certain medical device malfunctions, serious injuries or deaths associated 
with the use of a medical device. “Field alert reports” are reports submitted to FDA for 
a specific drug application and defect category. “Field actions” include both recalled 
products and nonrecall actions taken on distributed products globally. All data include 
acquisitions and supplier-related data where integrated.
In 2019, drawing on a wide range of internal and external inputs and management processes and systems, 
we implemented thousands of improvements to Baxter products to enhance product performance 
and reliability and to increase convenience and ease of use to drive toward improved patient safety.
We Listen
Patients
Healthcare providers
Regulators
Suppliers
Manufacturing 
Innovation and trendsWe Deliver
Product changes 
Performance
Ease of use
Convenience
Education
For patients
For caregiversProduct 
Development 
and Innovation
Existing product 
improvements
New productsBAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT11
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
decreasing our environmental impact and that of our 
customers, this approach has the potential to reduce 
material costs and support growth by maintaining and 
expanding access to markets.
As a founding member of the Sustainable Healthcare  
Coalition , we work to understand customer needs and 
trends related to sustainable healthcare and help drive  
the industry forward.Sustainable Design
Through the innovative, sustainable design of our products, 
we minimize our environmental impacts and capture the 
most value possible from the natural resources needed 
to manufacture, transport, use and recover our products. 
To support this objective, we are beginning to shift from 
a linear approach of “take, make, dispose” to the circular 
approach illustrated in the graphic below. In addition to 
INNOVATING FOR SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE
We are beginning to transition from a linear to a circular approach that maximizes the value gained 
from materials, while improving environmental performance and the customer experience.
Product Use
We design products to 
reduce energy demands and 
waste during use by 
customers, caregivers 
and patients.Product End-of-Life
We work to repair and reuse 
electromechanical medical 
products when possible and 
collaborate with partners 
around the world to recycle 
medical waste.Sustainable Design
We use Environmental, Health, 
Safety and Sustainability reviews 
and life cycle assessments to 
understand product environmental 
performance and requirements 
and drive ongoing improvements 
across the value chain.Materials Use
We innovate to reduce 
materials use in our 
products, decrease waste in 
manufacturing and 
packaging, and minimize use 
of materials of concern.Patient Safety
and Quality
We have an unrelenting 
dedication to patient safety 
and quality that is 
foundational to the 
company’s mission and 
ongoing success.PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH, 
SAFETY AND SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW
To support our sustainable design efforts, we utilize 
an Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
(EHS&S) review. This required assessment 
occurs during the development process for all 
new products. It evaluates EHS&S and regulatory 
considerations and requirements across the value 
chain. This review also includes more detailed life 
cycle assessment (LCA)-based computer modeling 
of proposed products and may involve comparison 
with existing products. Key metrics from the reviews 
have demonstrated progress in avoiding materials of 
concern, minimizing customer waste and reducing 
product carbon footprints. The EHS&S review also 
helps us continually improve our operations, meet 
customer expectations and manage regulatory risk. 
For select new and established products, we use full 
LCAs to evaluate and improve product sustainability 
performance. See our 2018 Corporate Responsibility  
Report  for information about an LCA of our Revaclear  
and Theranova  dialyzers.
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT12
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Materials Use
Materials use is a key driver 
of Baxter’s environmental 
footprint, so getting the most 
value possible from materials  
is central to our transition 
toward a more circular 
approach. We implement 
innovative projects and 
initiatives across our value 
chain to reduce materials use 
in products and packaging. 
Since 2015, we have launched six therapies/products that 
reduced materials use by at least 15% without affecting 
efficacy, achieving our 2020 goal. These include our 
Spectrum IQ  Infusion System, Evo IQ  Infusion System, Kaguya  automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) system cycler, 
Amia  APD system cycler, Floseal  Hemostatic Matrix and 
our premixed presentation of eptifibatide.  
Packaging
Baxter innovates to decrease the 
environmental impact of product 
packaging, without adversely 
affecting product safety or 
efficacy, by reducing the amount 
of materials used and substituting 
with environmentally preferable 
alternatives. From 2016 to 2019, 
we have reduced packaging 
globally from products shipped to 
customers by 1,979 metric tons.2 
REDUCING PLASTIC WASTE
Plastic scrap from manufacturing is Baxter’s largest 
waste stream, so we focus our efforts on reducing 
plastic waste and increasing recycling. In 2019,  
we reduced plastic scrap per unit of production by  
5% globally compared with 2018, equivalent to  
1,315 metric tons. 
Our Marion (North Cove), North Carolina, facility has equipment that captures high-density polyethylene 
(HDPE) plastic scrap and recycles a portion of it for reuse in the manufacturing process. In 2019, this system 
reduced our use of HDPE at the facility by 376 metric tons (12% of total plastic volume) compared with 2018. 
At our facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico, we implemented several initiatives to reduce plastic scrap, including 
reducing the number of samples we use for sterilization testing and regrinding and reusing PVC scrap, 
similar to the process in place at our Marion (North Cove) facility. In 2019, these efforts led to a reduction of 
174 metric tons of PVC waste (18% of total plastic volume) compared with 2018 and a projected annualized 
savings of $611,000. See Waste  for additional initiatives to reduce plastic scrap.5% less
plastic scrap per unit of 
production, equivalent to 
1,315 metric tons* 
* Compared with 2018.NEW, INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS 
SHOWCASE PATIENT SAFETY AND 
RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
As Baxter develops new products, we strive to  
make them safe, user friendly and effective for 
patients and caregivers, while minimizing the 
environmental impact of production and use. We 
launched several products in 2019 that highlight  
our focus in these areas, including the following: 
• The next generation of our Floseal  product, Floseal  
Hemostatic Matrix, is prepared using 20% fewer 
components and steps,3 making it easier and faster 
for operating room nurses to get Floseal  into the 
hands of surgeons to help stop bleeding during 
procedures. These design enhancements resulted 
in a 24% reduction in shipping weight for the 5mL 
product and a 10% reduction in shipping weight for 
the 10mL product.
• Myxredlin  was the first ready-to-use insulin for IV 
infusion in hospitals and other acute care settings 
and offers an extended shelf life of 30 days at 
room temperature or 24 months refrigerated. 
This innovative presentation ensures a consistent, 
stable and predictable concentration with each 
administration, a key consideration for patient  
safety. In addition, Myxredlin  is the only insulin 
product on the market that is formulated without 
meta-cresol (m-cresol), a preservative on the  
NIOSH list of hazardous chemicals, which must be 
disposed of as hazardous waste. Myxredlin  is also 
PVC-, DEHP- and preservative-free and not made 
with natural rubber latex.
• Premixed and ready-to-use medicines support 
accurate, on-time delivery to patients, reduce 
waste and enhance patient safety. Our premixed 
presentation of eptifibatide, a cardiovascular 
medicine, is the first of its kind to be available in a 
flexible container rather than a glass vial. We estimate 
this reduces product weight by up to a third.2020 GOAL
Reduce 
material use 
by 15% on 
three products/
therapies
Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS2020 GOAL
Eliminate 3,000 
metric tons 
of packaging 
material from 
products 
shipped to 
customers
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSNeeds attentionBAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT13
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
During 2019, we initiated several projects to reduce 
packaging, which will save $375,000 on an annualized basis. 
Examples include: 
• At our Amata, Thailand, facility, we changed the shipping 
carton for our renal peritoneal dialysis (PD) products, 
leading to a reduction of 235 metric tons of cardboard 
and $89,500 in annualized savings. 
• At our facility in Atlacomulco, Mexico, we eliminated a 
carton insert for our Homechoice  product, which saves  
45 metric tons of cardboard and $35,600 per year. 
• At our Grosotto/Sondalo (Valtellina), Italy, facility, we 
began using a stretch film that is 12 rather than  
23 microns thick. This change saves 22 metric tons  
of stretch film and $90,000 per year.
• Our Compounding Unit in Croydon, UK, replaced 
polystyrene inserts with natural sheep wool to insulate  
and protect chemotherapy products delivered to 
customers in London and the broader southeastern 
portion of the country. This innovative material substitution 
is expected to save 62,400 pieces of polystyrene on an 
annual basis at this site.  
Materials of Concern
Keeping materials of concern out of the waste stream 
increases the potential for discarded materials to 
be reused for high-value purposes. We have global 
strategies and programs to help ensure that we 
meet product materials restrictions, such as the EU 
Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive 
and EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and 
Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation, among 
others. In addition, as part of our EHS&S product 
reviews and by consulting a number of regulatory lists, 
we work to avoid or minimize materials of concern.  
These regulations and lists include, but are not limited to: 
• California Proposition 65 
• EU Medical Devices Regulation 
• EU REACH Substances of Very High Concern 
• EU RoHS • Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the 
Ozone Layer 
• Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants 
• U.S. SEC conflict minerals 
During 2019, our efforts in 
this area included reducing 
cyclohexanone use during 
container manufacturing, 
evaluating PVC alternatives and 
determining ways to potentially 
eliminate the use of DEHP 
plasticizers in products.
Additional substances we seek 
to avoid or minimize include 
endocrine disrupters, latex, 
phthalates, volatile organic 
compounds and others that might  
not be included in the lists above. See Baxter’s position 
statements on Proposition 65 , REACH , and conflict  
minerals , and our most recent Conflict Minerals Report .
Striving for Full Materials Disclosure
Baxter's corporate responsibility approach prioritizes 
compliance with product chemical and medical device 
regulations. Working with a third party, we collect data 
from suppliers to determine the use of substances of  
very high concern. This helps us to confirm compliance 
with global material regulations and assists us in 
proactively monitoring the impact that changes in global 
legislation might have on our product portfolio. We also 
continue to leverage third-party testing, which provides  
us with full material data and LCAs for many of our 
devices, helps validate device compliance with chemical 
legislation and provides information we need to respond  
to environmental questionnaires from customers. As 
of the end of 2019, we completed testing for 36 of our 
products, which covered more than 8,300 parts.  This included many of our electromechanical devices, 
which are the most complex products in our portfolio in 
terms of number of parts and materials.
Additionally, as a member of MedTech Europe , we are 
working with other multinational pharmaceutical/medical 
device companies to drive full material disclosure in 
global material compliance, and we contribute to several 
working groups. We also monitor RoHS and REACH 
developments and contribute to greater understanding 
of the hazardous substances requirements for the 
EU Medical Device Regulation by sharing information 
related to our full materials disclosure testing and 
analysis program, including materials commonly used in 
products that could potentially be replaced or eliminated. 
This supports consistent interpretation and efficient 
compliance with related regulations within the industry.
Product End-of-Life
Disposable Medical Products
Baxter works to recapture 
valuable materials at the 
end of product life and has 
introduced several programs to 
facilitate recycling for patients 
and hospitals, including those 
highlighted below. During 2019, 
we increased the number of 
hospitals and facilities with 
recycling programs for some of 
Baxter’s products to 349.
In Australia and New Zealand, 
Baxter collaborates with the 
Vinyl Council of Australia 
to offer PVC and aluminum recovery initiatives for 
hospitals. In addition to the environmental benefits, we 
estimate that collection of the PVC and aluminum during 
2019 saved our customers approximately $130,000 that 
would have otherwise been spent on disposal. 2020 GOAL
Eliminate or 
minimize the 
presence of 
chemicals  
of concern 
(as defined by 
regulations)  
in new 
products
On track
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
2020 GOAL
Partner to 
implement 
recycling of 
product waste 
at hospitals 
and increase 
participation 
to 200
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchievedBAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT14
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
We have established a similar program in Guatemala 
in partnership with Biotrash, a Central American waste 
management company. Through the program, we collect 
and recycle PVC and other plastics from hospitals and 
dialysis clinics. As of the end of 2019, 21 facilities were 
participating in the program, and Biotrash had recovered 
16.5 metric tons of PVC and 6 metric tons of polypropylene. 
Biotrash recycles PVC to make shoe soles, and in 2019 
donated 59 pairs of shoes to students at the Thelma Arroyo 
School, Valle de Guatemala in Guatemala City. Biotrash 
also uses recovered polypropylene to manufacture bricks 
for use in its own facilities. 
Our Renal Care Services group in Colombia works to 
recycle PVC from dialysis clinics, and in October 2019, 
began a PVC collection service for home dialysis patients 
as well. During 2019, we recycled 56 metric tons of PVC 
from 43 dialysis clinics and 6.5 metric tons of PVC from home dialysis patients through this program. We partner 
with organizations that use the recovered PVC to make 
chairs, water hoses, accessories for purses, shoe soles 
and other items. 
In Australia and New Zealand, we also assist patients 
who receive regular home deliveries of dialysis 
solutions to recycle related waste. As of the end of 2019, 
approximately 30% of Baxter PD home patients in these 
countries (more than 900 patients) participated in the 
Home PD Recycling Program. In 2019, the program 
collected and recycled 137 metric tons of plastic and 
118 metric tons of cardboard.
We work with customers, industry peers and recycling 
and disposal vendors to facilitate the recycling and 
responsible treatment of disposable medical products. 
Baxter is a charter member and leads the technical 
PVC AND ALUMINUM RECYCLING PROGRAMS, 2019
metric tons 
PVC collected 
for recycling  142
metric tons 
aluminum 
bottles recycled  1.07
hospitals217
hospitals63Australia
metric tons 
PVC recycled56
dialysis clinics43Colombia
metric tons 
PVC recycled16.5
hospitals and clinics21Guatemala
metric tons 
PVC collected 
for recycling  58.5
metric tons 
aluminum 
bottles recycled  0.13
hospitals38
hospitals20New Zealandworking group for the Healthcare Plastics Recycling  
Council (HPRC) . As part of this working group, we help 
apply the collective technical knowledge, experience and 
resources of the HPRC to address barriers to healthcare 
plastics recycling and to drive change in the industry. 
During 2019, Baxter participated in a roundtable that 
HPRC co-hosted with Practice Greenhealth. The event 
focused on the state of plastics recycling in light of 
China’s decision to accept less waste, stagnant markets, 
toxicity, and concerns over the amount of plastics in 
landfills and waterways. In addition, Baxter assisted in 
the development of a white paper entitled Circularity for  
Healthcare Plastics: The Challenges and Opportunities . 
The paper focuses on the identification of challenges 
and opportunities for using postconsumer recycled and 
postindustrial recycled content in medical devices and 
medical device packaging. 
Electronic Equipment
Some of the electromechanical medical devices we sell, 
such as renal APD cyclers, support progress toward the 
circular economy through serviceability, repair and reuse. 
We lease certain types of electromechanical medical 
products to customers and patients, which helps ensure 
they have the technology that best meets their needs and 
provides more flexibility than owning the devices. This 
model also ensures those products will be returned to 
Baxter after use for repair and reuse. 
Regulations in many countries worldwide require 
responsible recycling of electronic products when reuse is 
no longer an option. For example, the EU Waste Electrical 
and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive requires 
manufacturers to arrange for the take-back of electronic 
products at end-of-life. In 2019, vendors recovered 
approximately 110 metric tons of electronic equipment in 
the region on Baxter’s behalf. Our WEEE website  provides 
customers detailed information on how to return or dispose 
of Baxter products in accordance with the directive.15
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15Baxter is committed to providing our approximately 50,0001 employees worldwide with a Best Place to Work. We remain 
steadfast in driving a high-performing, inclusive and diverse organization where employees pursue rewarding careers 
and take pride in bringing the company’s mission to life. To help employees realize their full potential and reward them 
for their contributions, we offer a wide range of learning and development opportunities in addition to competitive 
compensation and benefits.
Global Inclusion and Diversity
We work to attract, motivate, develop and retain an 
inclusive and diverse workforce that includes women, 
underrepresented minority groups, U.S. veterans, people 
with disabilities, early career professionals and the LGBTQ 
community. Our focus on inclusion and diversity drives 
innovation, creates trusted partnerships with customers, 
suppliers and community partners, and contributes to the 
success and sustainability of our business.
In 2019, our chief executive 
officer signed the CEO Action   
for Diversity & Inclusion™  
pledge—the largest CEO-driven 
business commitment to 
advance diversity and inclusion 
in the workplace. During the 
year, we remained at or above 
external benchmarks for women 
(globally) and ethnic minority representation (in the United States) at most career levels. 
We continue working to close gender and ethnic minority 
gaps at executive levels. View workforce data . 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
WORKPLACE  
CULTURE
Promote inclusion, diversity and 
employee engagement
2020 GOAL
Aspire to diversity 
in leadership  
at or above 
benchmarks
Needs attention
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS* These data do not represent all employee training and development but do capture a large portion of training for most employees.    ** Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa.  
The global average database includes more than 400 companies and more than 19 million responses.    *** Reflects 68% of eligible managers.training hours 
completed, an 
average of 
approximately 
38.4 hours per 
employee*1.92 million
above global average**Employee 
engagement score 
increased 2 percentage  
points compared 
with 2018, 
between May and 
October***Scorecards measuring 
effectiveness of people 
managers increased
5 pointspercentage 4 pointspercentage 
GLOBAL INCLUSION 
AND DIVERSITY 
FOCUS AREAS
Workforce    Attract and build diverse and high-
performing teams that are engaged and innovative.
Workplace    Advance an inclusive culture,  
where every employee feels valued, respected  
and safe to be their authentic self.
Communities    Cultivate strategic and diverse 
supplier and community partnerships.
Marketplace    Consider the needs of customers  
and patients in all aspects of our business.
iStock.com/PeopleImages16
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Key inclusion and diversity initiatives include:
Gender IQ Program    We offer a development program 
for our global leadership team to provide education on 
gender biases and blind spots, foster more productive 
working relationships, positively leverage gender 
differences and advance women within our company. 
Since the program’s inception in 2017 through the  
end of 2019, 35% of leaders at the director level and 
85% of leaders at the vice president level and above 
completed the program. 
Sponsorship    We have a formal sponsorship program 
in which senior leaders advocate to advance high-
performing women and underrepresented minorities 
(United States) in their careers. 
Mentoring for new women leaders    Our WoMentoring 
program supports women who have been newly hired 
or promoted into roles at the director level and above 
through mentoring relationships with other women  
in leadership.
Working Parents/Caregiver Program    We provide 
resources to help U.S. employees prepare for and manage 
parenthood and caregiving as working professionals.Board Diversity
We are committed to further increasing the diversity 
of our board of directors through strategic board 
refreshment efforts. The last three appointments  
have been female directors. As of the end of 2019, 
women comprised 25% of our board of directors.  
See information regarding board diversity on page 5  
of Baxter’s 2020 Proxy Statement . 
Global Inclusion Council
Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council (GIC), chaired by a 
member of our senior leadership team, is composed  
of approximately 15 leaders from our businesses,  
regions and functions across the company. The GIC's 
mission is to focus globally on the advancement 
of women and underrepresented minority groups 
(including people of different races, ethnicities and 
sexual orientations as well as veterans and people 
with disabilities) and to drive inclusive leadership 
capabilities and culture. The GIC is responsible 
for advocating and driving our global inclusion 
and diversity priorities, as well as developing and 
implementing local inclusion plans.ADVANCING YOUNG WOMEN LEADERS
In 2018, Baxter partnered with the Healthcare 
Businesswomen's Association (HBA) to establish 
the HBA Ambassador program, an innovative 
women’s leadership development initiative. The 
program provides career development support for 
young women in senior technical and leadership 
roles within Research and Development. 
Participants are mentored and coached by 
senior leaders and provided access to events and 
opportunities through the global HBA network. 
As of early 2020, approximately 45 women across 
Asia, Europe and the United States were selected 
to participate in this program.Baxter’s mission is simple and honorable: to save and sustain lives. 
Continuing to advance our inclusion and diversity efforts will help ensure 
we’re able to achieve this worthy goal. I can’t help but imagine what  
could be accomplished for patients if we all came together to do even more. ”
SUMANT RAMACHANDRA    PRESIDENT, PHARMACEUTICALS AND CHIEF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY OFFICER AT BAXTER  
AND CHAIR, BAXTER GLOBAL INCLUSION COUNCIL “
May 2019: Employees at the Ahmedabad, India, facility enjoying a  
cardio dance class.17
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Building Cultural Competence
Baxter provides employees with training, tools and 
resources to build cultural awareness and competence, 
and engage more authentically with each other. Many 
employees also work on global teams, enabling them 
to build cultural competence through daily interactions, and we encourage employees to practice simple acts of 
inclusiveness in their day-to-day routines.
We work to embed awareness of unconscious bias 
throughout our company and require all employees 
to take a self-guided e-learning module about 
unconscious bias. In addition, we have integrated prompts in key processes, such as talent assessment, 
succession planning, feedback and hiring, to help 
employees think about their biases as they undertake 
these activities. In 2019, we initiated a process called 
“Pause and Discuss” during our hiring process. 
This is a structured discussion to help check for 
unconscious bias in the selection decision before 
moving forward with an offer.  
Business Resource Groups
Baxter’s Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are 
an important component of creating an inclusive 
and diverse culture and advancing our priorities 
as a company and in the communities  where we 
live and work. Our BRGs are employee-run affinity 
groups that support the recruitment, retention, 
engagement and development of diverse employees 
across Baxter. We have eight established BRGs and 
encourage all employees to get involved: the Asian 
Leadership Network, Baxter Black Alliance, Baxter 
EnAbles, Baxter Equality Network, Baxter Women 
Leaders, BaxVets, Early Career Professionals  
and Latinos @Baxter.
Equal Opportunity
As an equal opportunity employer, Baxter prohibits 
employment discrimination or harassment of 
applicants, employees and third parties due to race, 
color, religion or religious creed, gender, national 
origin, ancestry, age, physical or mental disability, 
medical condition, genetic information, marital 
status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or 
expression, military or veteran status or any other 
basis protected by law. 
Learn more  about inclusion and diversity at Baxter.“I live with an 'invisible' disability—a bleeding disorder that has caused difficult 
deliveries and other stays in the hospital. Working for a diverse and inclusive company 
like Baxter means anyone with a disability—whether it's visible or invisible—  
has equal opportunities for employment, career advancement and full accessibility. ”
JACKIE KUNZLER     SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF QUALITY OFFICER AND EXECUTIVE SPONSOR OF BAXTER ENABLES
18
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Employee Engagement
Transforming Company Culture
Baxter's four culture levers—speed, simplicity, courage 
and collaboration—form the basis for our cultural 
transformation. We’ve embedded the levers into 
established processes ranging from job interviews to new 
employee orientations to monthly employee-manager 
check-ins. During 2019, we emphasized a focus on 
simplicity, introducing SmartMeeting guidelines for our 
employees and hosting manager-led sessions about 
how to simplify workflows and processes. Using monthly 
surveys, we evaluate the impact of our four culture levers 
across the company to ensure we are making progress. 
Every year, we conduct a 
Best Place to Work survey. In 
2019, 85% of our employees 
worldwide participated. We 
exceeded the cross-industry 
global average in all eight 
categories, and scores 
improved between one and 
three percentage points in each 
of the categories assessed. 
Our score in the engagement 
category was five percentage 
points above the global average and three percentage 
points below the top quartile benchmark.2
We share survey results broadly across Baxter to drive 
continuous improvement. Based on 2018 survey results, 
manager effectiveness has been a key focus area. During 
2019, we developed a people manager effectiveness 
scorecard that summarizes anonymous feedback from 
employees about their direct managers. We provided 74% 
of eligible managers3 with this scorecard based on results 
from the Best Place to Work survey conducted in May. More 
than 20,000 employees responded to a follow-up survey in October, enabling us to provide 68% of eligible managers 
with a second scorecard showing a trend over time. Our 
overall manager effectiveness score for the October survey 
was 79%, five percentage points above the top quartile 
benchmark and a four percentage point increase from the 
Best Place to Work survey in May.
Performance and Career Development
At Baxter, we embrace a continuous feedback model 
for performance management. This includes monthly 
check-ins between employees and their managers that focus on constructive feedback and career development. 
We've found that employees who take part in monthly 
check-ins have engagement rates that are 19 percentage 
points higher than employees who do not. 
Historically, we focused our talent review and planning 
process on senior leaders. Over the last few years, we’ve 
been including more employees in the process, beginning 
with managers and expanding to the professional and 
supervisor level during 2019. This helps us better 
understand our global talent pipeline, identify high-
potential employees and mitigate retention-related risk.2017
Culture Culture levers are the critical behaviors that will  – 71% 74% 70% help us achieve a winning culture
Development Providing employees with the opportunity to grow and 67% 68% 70% 64% the resources to achieve their career aspirations
Engagement An employee’s personal investment in the organization  67% 69% 71% 66% and motivation to contribute to its success
Inclusion Ensuring everyone is able to contribute their best   
63% 66% 69% 66%  and that the company has a diverse employee  
 population to drive innovation
Leadership Growing leaders who inspire commitment and  63% 66% 67% 63% engagement, develop their teams and align goals
Organization Driving productivity through goal alignment, agility  72% 72% 74% 65% and teamwork; ensuring clarity on direction and vision
Rewards Providing competitive pay and benefits; attracting and  59% 61% 64% 51% retaining the best talent with our programs
Workplace Providing a safe work environment;  71% 71% 73% 68% enabling employees to do their best work2019  
   Average**2018Baxter Global
2019BAXTER 2019 BEST PLACE TO WORK SURVEY (CATEGORY SCORES )*
*  Scores indicate the percentage of survey participants who responded favorably to statements related to each of the categories listed.
** Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa and represent more than 400 companies and more than 19 million responses.2020 GOAL
Achieve an 
employee 
engagement 
score 
comparable 
to top quartile 
companies
On track
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS19
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Workplace Flexibility
Baxter recognizes the increasing demands on employees 
to manage their personal and work lives, and respects the 
need for different approaches to where, how and when work 
gets done. With tools and resources available for employees 
and managers to navigate ad hoc or ongoing flexible 
arrangements, employees are encouraged to discuss with 
their managers what options might be right for them and 
their jobs. As of the end of 2019, 80% of employees were 
participating in some form of flexible work.
Learn more  about workplace flexibility at Baxter.Our talent development philosophy emphasizes 
continuous learning, relationship building, mentoring and 
enhancing work experiences. We provide virtual, online 
and classroom offerings worldwide on topics such as 
business/financial acumen, leadership, management, 
product knowledge and a wide range of job-specific skills. 
During 2019, we continued to improve the training we 
provide to employees, offering a broad range of relevant, 
high-quality content with a focus on helping employees 
advance their personal and professional development. 
Beginning in 2019, our training was consolidated into a 
single, mobile-friendly learning platform, called BaxU. 
In 2019, we recorded a total of 1.92 million training 
hours, which equals an average of approximately  
38.4 hours per employee.4 
Learn more  about talent development at Baxter.
Manager and Leadership Development 
During 2019, Baxter continued offering a range of 
programs to more fully engage our managers and drive 
effective leadership across the company. This includes 
programs related to change management, quarterly calls 
about culture change with Baxter’s CEO, development for mid-level leaders that show high potential, 
curriculum for senior leaders focused on driving cultural 
transformation through courageous leadership and a 
development program for manufacturing supervisors. 
In 2019, 60% of leaders globally participated in one 
or more of these leadership development programs. 
We also introduced our People Manager Development 
Program—a global program focused on increasing 
manager effectiveness. The program uses a virtual 
learning approach that blends structured webinars and 
self-paced learning with real-world application and 
manager involvement. We incorporate the invaluable 
knowledge of our leadership team into the webinars by 
showcasing Baxter leaders sharing best practices based 
on their own experiences. 
Compensation and Benefits 
Baxter's total compensation philosophy is to provide 
market-competitive pay and benefits globally while 
rewarding employees for strong individual and business 
performance. A 2018 pay equity study of our U.S. salaried 
workforce found no significant pay differences among men, 
women and ethnic minorities. Learn more about employee  
compensation and benefits  and executive compensation .new
scholarships61
countries
worldwide29
renewed
scholarships147
GLOBAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
Many of the benefits we offer employees support 
their family members as well. For example, our 
employees' children can apply for merit-based 
scholarships, funded by the Baxter International 
Foundation. A third-party agency evaluates student 
applications based on academic, extracurricular  
and employment accomplishments. Recipients 
receive a cash award, and scholarships may be 
renewed for up to three additional years.
20
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20As a global healthcare company operating in more than 100 countries, we incorporate ethics and compliance into 
everything we do. Baxter’s success is based on personal accountability for results and integrity. Patients, doctors, 
customers, regulators, investors, communities and employees count on it. We prioritize being honest and fair, keeping 
promises, encouraging questions, valuing discussion and following legal requirements.
Companywide Accountability
Baxter has compliance committees for each 
country or cluster of countries where we operate 
to further integrate ethics and compliance in 
strategic plans and day-to-day activities across 
our company. To ensure the local implementation 
of our global ethics and compliance program, 
the business lead of each country/cluster holds 
mandatory quarterly meetings to facilitate 
discussion among local leadership about key 
issues, challenges and risks in their area. This 
approach, in conjunction with Baxter’s established 
codes, policies, trainings and monitoring and 
assessment practices, enables the company to 
more effectively target specific needs and drive 
ownership of and responsibility for ethics and 
compliance worldwide. 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
ETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE
Drive a culture of integrity  
and the highest ethical behavior
DRIVING A CULTURE OF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
CLIMATESGOVERNANCEHiring and
PromotionsTone at
the Top
Third Party and
Mergers and 
Acquisitions
Due DiligencePolicies and
Procedures
Counseling
and TrainingInvestigations
Controls, 
Monitoring 
and AssessmentsCULTUREcorruption-related 
enforcement 
actions0
achieved on employee 
survey questions 
related to ethics culture 
(1 percentage point above 
and 2 percentage points 
below top quartile)*  Favorable 
ratings
of employees 
completed the 
annual Code of 
Conduct training97%
* Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa. The global average database includes more than 400 companies and more than 19 million responses. Top quartile is a subset of the global average. 21
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
During 2019, we achieved 
favorable ratings on the two 
questions related to ethics 
culture on our annual Best 
Place to Work survey.  
The scores for the two 
questions improved compared 
with 2018 and were one 
percentage point above  
and two percentage points 
below top quartile  
companies, respectively.1
Ethics and Compliance Training
All employees are required to complete Code of Conduct  
training annually. In 2019, 97% of employees completed the 
training. Employees also complete online courses relevant 
to their jobs every other year on a rotational basis. These 
cover topics addressed in Baxter’s Global Interactions Policy 
and Third Party Program. In addition to the anticorruption content covered by the Code of Conduct and Global 
Interactions Policy training, our sales force participates in 
business-led, interactive workshops/trainings related to 
interactions with the medical community and government 
officials, including discussion of real-life scenarios. 
Third Party Program
Baxter is committed to conducting business with integrity 
and in compliance with the law wherever we operate. 
Our Third Party Program, policy and training outline 
the standards and processes used to review, retain and 
monitor new and existing third parties for compliance 
with our anticorruption expectations. The program and 
policy apply to Baxter employees, officers and directors 
involved in the review, retention and monitoring of third 
parties. Through December 2019, approximately 13,400 
targeted employees received training on the program, in 
addition to the anticorruption content covered by Code of 
Conduct training. In 2019, we also updated the training 
we provide to all new and certain existing third parties. 
Compliance Assessments
Baxter completes risk-based compliance assessments 
and audits at least annually, covering corruption, 
among other topics. Our Corporate Audit and Ethics and 
Compliance functions select locations to audit and assess 
based on factors such as business complexity, size, risk 
of corruption, the nature of interactions with the medical 
community and third parties, enforcement trends, and 
the results of compliance monitoring and investigations. 
Compliance assessments also focus on relationships 
with third parties that represent the company with 
customers, including the medical community, patients 
and government officials and entities. 
In 2019, we conducted three compliance assessments using 
Corporate Audit and Ethics and Compliance resources, one 
in each of the following areas: Asia Pacific (APAC); Europe, 
Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Latin America. In addition to compliance assessments, Baxter also 
performed detailed, onsite compliance audits of three 
distributors, one each in the APAC, EMEA and Latin 
America regions. Our goal is to expand our distributor 
monitoring and auditing program to cover a greater 
number of locations and distributors. 
Compliance Monitoring
Baxter has deployed a data analytics-based  
monitoring system in 16 key countries around the 
world, including Brazil, China, India and Russia. 
This system enables us to perform near-real-time 
monitoring of metrics related to travel, entertainment, 
and interactions with healthcare professionals and 
government officials. Transactions identified as 
potentially problematic are reviewed by the Ethics  
and Compliance investigation team as appropriate.
We continue to expand the monitoring program across 
additional countries and data sources and to examine 
risk metrics periodically to identify new areas of focus 
for our monitoring efforts. 
Baxter had zero corruption-
related enforcement actions 
in 2019. On October 24, 2019, 
Baxter reported that it had 
commenced an internal 
investigation into certain 
intra-company transactions 
that impacted our previously 
reported non-operating foreign  
exchange gains and losses. 
Baxter’s internal investigation, 
as it pertains to the evaluation 
of related financial statement 
impacts, is complete. Baxter voluntarily advised the 
staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
(SEC) of its internal investigation and is continuing 
to cooperate with the staff of the SEC. We published 
restated financial information on March 17, 2020.2020 GOAL
Achieve zero 
government 
enforcement 
actions over 
compliance 
issues
On track
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
2020 GOAL
Achieve overall 
compliance 
culture scores 
in the top 
quartile of 
general industry 
benchmarks
On track
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS22
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Relationships With Healthcare 
Professionals and Government Officials
Baxter is committed to transparent reporting about 
relationships with the medical community and 
government officials. This includes the continued 
implementation of anticorruption programs to ensure 
that those relationships and the related fair market 
value payments are for necessary and genuine services. 
Our Global Interactions Policy  defines the principles 
and rules governing our interactions with government 
officials and members of the medical community. 
The Global Interactions Policy also outlines guidelines for 
corporate charitable giving to ensure compliance with the 
law and with Baxter policy. We have Local Contributions 
Management Committees for some countries, clusters 
of countries or regions. Where they exist, those local 
committees have decision-making authority for charitable 
contribution requests from nonprofit and for-profit 
healthcare organizations and patient organizations. 
The Baxter International Foundation, the philanthropic 
arm of Baxter International Inc., is a separate legal 
entity governed by its own Board of Directors and has 
distinct grantmaking guidelines that outline policies for 
charitable contributions to nonprofit organizations.
Ethics and Compliance Helpline
In 2019, Baxter logged 719 reports from 31 countries 
into our Ethics and Compliance Helpline system and 
closed 685 cases that were received through 2019. The 
number of reports logged was higher than in 2018 due 
to a rise in items reported in the Work Environment/
Employee Relations category associated with a small 
number of our operations centers in the Americas region. 
All reports received during the year involving allegations 
of misconduct were promptly triaged for investigation. 
For all closed cases that were substantiated, employees 
received appropriate disciplinary action.Privacy and Data Protection
We respect the privacy of our patients, employees and 
customers. Baxter’s Global Privacy Policy defines our 
privacy standards and guides our global operations to 
follow similar controls for protecting personal information. 
During 2019, we closely followed market developments 
and enforcement actions related to the EU General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) as we collaborated with our 
network of privacy experts across the EU to successfully 
address the regulation. We have established a GDPR 
Policy and related training for employees. In 2019, we 
also continued to monitor proposed changes to privacy 
legislation and regulations in other locations, including the 
California Consumer Privacy Act, to assess the impact on 
Baxter and to implement changes to our privacy control 
framework as necessary and appropriate as we prepared 
to comply with new privacy requirements.  Baxter's Information Protection Policy outlines our 
approach to information security and the standards we 
require employees and suppliers to follow. We also provide 
an online Product Security summary  that customers can 
access to learn about security vulnerabilities that might 
affect Baxter products. 
In response to growing and changing cyber threats, we 
consistently assess and strengthen our cyber defenses and 
response capabilities. The Global IT Security Operations 
team helps to protect Baxter against cyberattacks using 
a range of defenses that secure our assets, reduce 
detection time and improve recoverability. We continue to 
raise security awareness with all Baxter users through 
mandatory training and in-person events. During 2019, we 
expanded multifactor authentication and implemented an 
always-on virtual private network (VPN) system to provide 
additional safeguards for our employees working remotely. 
The Enterprise Cybersecurity and Information Council 
oversees efforts in this area.Work Environment/Employee Relations 68%
Manufacturing/EHS&S/R&D/Regulatory/Quality 15%
Asset or Information Misuse or Misappropriation/Confidential Data  5%
Conflict of Interest  5%
Financial Management and Reporting  3%
Marketing and Sales  2%
Competitive Practices 1%
Interactions with Government Officials Including HCPs/HCOs (outside the U.S.)  1%
Payments/Gifts/Entertainment with HCPs/HCOs (U.S.)  0%Category % of total*ITEMS REPORTED TO THE ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE IN 2019
* The category Payments/Gifts/ Entertainment with HCPs/HCOs (U.S.) had two reports submitted, which rounded to 0%. “HCPs” are healthcare professionals. “HCOs” 
are healthcare organizations.23
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
In pursuit of Baxter’s aspiration to be a Best Place to Work, we provide a safe workplace and the resources employees  
need to maintain and improve their health and wellness. 
Baxter follows a management-systems approach guided by our global Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
(EHS&S) requirements. For more about Baxter’s EHS&S management system, see Operations . We clearly define the 
responsibilities of corporate, regional and facility-level occupational health and safety professionals and hold leaders 
accountable for achieving goals and targets. The EHS&S organization reports employee safety performance to senior 
leadership and manufacturing and supply chain management weekly. EHS&S also communicates performance to 
Baxter's Board of Directors.
Injury and Illness Performance1
In 2019, we achieved Baxter's 
lowest-ever recordable incident 
rate, an improvement of 5% from 
the prior year. In a comparison 
of 32 global companies across 
all industries,2 Baxter’s total 
recordable incident rate during 
the year ranked eighth, or in 
the top 25%, achieving our goal. 
Our cases with days lost rate 
worsened by 2% compared with 
2018 (although the total number of cases with days lost remained the same) and our days 
lost rate improved by 26%. 
Key contributors to overall performance  
improvement included:
• Processes that engaged employees to identify,  
monitor and mitigate hazards 
• Continued visibility to all recordable injuries and 
corrective actions through weekly management  
reporting and recordable roundtable calls 
• Increased management engagement in safety 
performance  
• Accountability systems for root-cause analysis and 
corrective action plans 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
EMPLOYEE 
HEALTH AND 
SAFETY
Achieve a zero-harm workplace 
and improve employee well-being* Compared with 2018.our lowest ever5%* *Recordable 
incident rate 
26%Days lost rate 
hours of exercise logged 
by employees through the 
BeWell@ Baxter Exercise 
Challenge (up 23%*)280,000+
2020 GOAL
Achieve the 
top quartile in 
total recordable 
incident rate 
among global 
companies 
across all 
industries
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchieved24
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Injuries and Major Incidents
When a major incident occurs at Baxter, facility management 
conducts a root-cause analysis and formulates mitigation 
strategies. We review incidents with a cross-functional team 
to share knowledge across the organization. Major incidents 
are defined as those that result in an employee or contractor 
being hospitalized overnight (for more than observation), 
sustaining an amputation, or dying. 
Six major incidents occurred at Baxter in 2019. None of 
those were fatalities.Driving a Culture of Safety and 
Engagement 
We aspire to achieve a zero-harm-workplace. In 2019, we 
launched BeSafe @Baxter, our new global safety program 
focused on personalizing safety for employees. Functional 
team members within facilities encourage employees to 
reflect on and share personal reasons for staying safe 
every day through “My Reason for Being Safe” engagement 
activities. BeSafe @Baxter strategies include the following:
Focused injury- and illness-reduction strategies      
Injury and illness metrics coupled with internal EHS&S 
audits provide focus for Baxter's safety, occupational 
health and industrial hygiene efforts. We continue to 
target ergonomics, and slips, trips and falls —two of the 
primary sources of injury at the company.
Emphasis on high-hazard sources     In 2019, we focused 
on a continuous improvement approach to preventing 
incidents caused by high-hazard sources, which are 
conditions or situations that could cause major injury 
or death. We analyzed our most severe historical 
incidents to identify root-cause trends. We then engaged 
internal stakeholders and external business partners 
to incorporate design engineering and administrative 
controls into core processes to address the root causes. 
We expect to further implement these controls in 2020.
Health and Wellness Program 
Management and Initiatives
Baxter’s occupational health function, in partnership  
with Human Resources and Global Communications, 
develops health and wellness strategies for the company. 
A global team of diverse health professionals and 
volunteers, known as Local Champions, helps refine  
and implement these approaches and set priorities. 
BeWell @Baxter
Healthy employees are more 
engaged and productive and less 
vulnerable to safety incidents and 
injuries. Through BeWell @Baxter, our global employee health and wellness effort, we 
strive to create a culture that raises awareness and 
promotes healthy lifestyles. 
The cornerstone of BeWell @Baxter is the Personal 
Wellness Profile, an online health risk assessment 
that helps employees understand how lifestyle choices, 
family history and other factors influence health and 
related risks. We use this data to focus our health 
promotion program on the areas of highest health risk 
for employees. As of the end of 2019, 33% of employees 
worldwide had completed a Personal Wellness Profile.3
In 2019, more than 14,000 employees logged more than 
280,000 hours of exercise as part of the BeWell @Baxter 
Exercise Challenge, a 23% increase in hours compared 
with 2018. In addition, 77% of 
facilities worldwide took part 
in Healthy Eating Month.
During the year, Baxter 
recorded an average employee 
participation rate of 47% 
in BeWell @Baxter health 
promotion program initiatives 
(which include the Personal 
Wellness Profile, the Exercise 
Challenge and Healthy Eating 
Month)—up from 38% in 2018.
Additional Programs and Initiatives for 
Employee Health
Baxter’s occupational health team also works to 
continually improve the company’s performance with the 
following programs and initiatives: 
Flu vaccinations     In 2019, we offered free seasonal 
flu vaccinations to all employees working at sites with 
25 or more employees. More than 15,000 employees 
worldwide received vaccinations through this program. 
Smoke-free workplaces     In 2019, in countries where 
smoke-free status is allowed by law, 100% of campuses 
with 25 or more employees were smoke-free, the same  
as in 2018.0246810
 2017 2018 2019
Days Lost Rate  3.62 2.88 2.14
Restricted Days Rate  8.69 6.20 7.83DAYS LOST RATE AND RESTRICTED DAYS RATE
RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE AND CASES WITH DAYS LOST RATE
 2017 2018 2019
Recordable Incident Rate  0.45 0.41 0.39
Cases With Days Lost Rate * 0.102 0.084 0.0860.000.100.200.300.400.50
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL2020 GOAL
Increase 
participation from 
35% to 45% in 
BeWell @Baxter 
health promotion 
program initiatives 
Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS* Data for 2017 and 2018 have been restated compared with the Baxter 2018  
Corporate Responsibility Report  to more accurately reflect change in performance.25
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
At Baxter, we are committed to driving sustainability throughout our global manufacturing operations.1 We strive to use 
energy, water and raw materials efficiently, while reducing waste and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This improves 
environmental performance while saving money and demonstrating environmental leadership. 
Our Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) vision is to achieve a sustainable enterprise that creates 
stakeholder value by advancing superior environmental stewardship, optimum employee health and well-being, and a 
zero-harm workplace. Baxter’s EHS&S Policy  outlines our commitments within operations and across the value chain. 
Our EHS&S governance structure helps us achieve our goals and create long-term business value. 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
OPERATIONS
Reduce environmental footprint 
through increased efficiency and 
resource conservation
* Compared with 2015 and indexed to revenue.    ** Compared with 2015.reduction in 
energy use*9%
reduction in 
water 
consumption*8%
reduction in 
total waste*10%
reduction in 
absolute 
greenhouse gas 
emissions**15%
2016 2017 2018 2019 2015
(baseline)2016 2017 2018 2019 2015
(baseline)Metric Tons CO2e % Change, Indexed to Revenue GHG Emissions Energy Use
Water Use
Waste Generation
-15%-10%-5%0%2020 Goals: -15%2020  Goal: -10%
-15%-10%-5%0%5%
600,000650,000700,000750,000PROGRESS TOWARD 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS26
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
We follow a management-systems approach guided by 
our global EHS&S requirements. We apply the ISO 14001 
standard to manage our environmental aspects and 
the OHSAS 18001 standard to manage our health and 
safety hazards and risks. As of year-end 2019, 59 Baxter 
locations, including 47 manufacturing sites, met ISO 14001  
requirements , and 44 sites were certified to OHSAS 18001 . 
Baxter’s EHS&S audit program helps to ensure that 
our facilities have programs that satisfy applicable 
regulatory requirements and are consistent with our 
EHS&S requirements, objectives and goals. In 2019, 
Baxter conducted EHS&S audits at 22 facilities. In 
addition, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, a third-party 
certification body, conducted annual ISO and OHSAS 
management system surveillance audits at four Baxter 
manufacturing sites in China.
In 2019, we received 22 environmental Notices of Violation 
(NOVs) and contested seven of these. No fines were 
related to the NOVs. We received three health and safety 
letters during the year—two in the United States and one 
in Mexico. We paid $9,382 in health and safety fines.
Energy
Energy is one of our most significant manufacturing 
costs, so energy conservation is important to our business 
as well as to the environment. Using energy effectively 
conserves natural resources, improves environmental 
performance and enhances business efficiency. Reducing 
fossil fuel combustion decreases GHG emissions, 
improves air quality and decreases fine particulates that 
contribute to adverse health effects. Renewable energy  
procurement  is also integral to our climate strategy.
The Baxter global energy program applies the ISO 
50001 standard to the company’s facility-level energy 
management systems. By the end of 2019, 15 company 
locations (32% of relevant facilities) met requirements 
under an ISO 50001 Group Certificate, and two facilities 
(4%) were individually certified to ISO 50001.In 2019, we used 9,574 trillion 
joules of energy, 9% less than 
in 2015, indexed to revenue. 
This includes electricity, fuel 
and purchased steam used by 
Baxter-managed and Baxter-
operated facilities; it excludes 
energy related to company-
operated vehicles. In 2019, 
we increased absolute energy 
use by 1% compared with 2018, due mainly to facility 
expansions and production increases. During that period, 
energy use indexed to revenue decreased by 1%.
Our energy costs rose 5% between 2018 and 2019, up $8 
million, due to increased energy use for production and 
higher costs per megajoule. 
Site-specific energy assessments identify opportunities to 
conserve energy and to apply and share new technologies 
and best practices across the company. In 2019, we 
performed energy assessments at nine facilities worldwide. 
From those, we identified 124 potential energy conservation 
projects, with possible annual savings of $4.4 million. Sites 
determine which projects to implement based on feasibility 
and return on investment. Facility personnel also uncover 
possible additional energy conservation projects. 
During 2019, we implemented 155 energy conservation 
projects across our manufacturing sites globally that saved 
$4.1 million and 174.5 trillion joules of energy on an annual 
basis, avoiding 12,600 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e) of GHG emissions. This is equivalent to 2% of our net 
GHG emissions from operations during the year.
We have operated a Lean Energy Program for our 
manufacturing facilities since 2007. It includes four 
levels—Gold, Silver, Bronze and Prerequisite (facilities 
meet the criteria for lower levels as they advance in 
pursuit of Gold). Each level has three sections that 
define the program: program requirements, operational 
excellence and technical requirements. By year-end 2019, 
out of 46 facilities,2 4 met the criteria of the Gold level, 
18 met Silver, 29 met Bronze, and 35 met Prerequisite.2019 ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS
projects implemented155
CO 2e of GHG 
emissions avoided 12,600savings during 2019$4.1
trillion joules million
metric tons174.52020 GOAL
Reduce total 
energy use by 
15% indexed to 
revenue
Needs attention
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
418
Gold Silver29
Bronze35
Prerequisite2019 BAXTER LEAN ENERGY PROGRAM ACHIEVEMENTS
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  AND VALUE 
CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG 
EMISSIONS TABLE  FOR MORE DETAIL27
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Water and Wastewater
Water issues continue to grow in importance worldwide. 
Although these concerns are global, they must be 
addressed at the local and regional levels. Baxter works 
to better understand the impacts of water use across our 
value chain and implements conservation and efficiency 
projects at our manufacturing facilities. See our response 
to CDP Water Security .
We reduced water consumption 
by 8% indexed to revenue from 
2015 through 2019. During 
2019, we used approximately 
14 million cubic meters of 
water.3 This represents an 
increase in water usage of  
1% in absolute terms, due 
mainly to facility expansions 
and production increases, and a 1% decrease indexed  
to revenue, compared with 2018. 
We consider several factors to identify water use 
reduction opportunities and possible water conservation 
projects at sites, including total water used, water usage 
efficiency, and water cost and availability. Due to the 
strong link between energy use and water processing, 
optimizing water systems remains a key focus of our 
facility energy assessments. Additionally, we integrate 
lean manufacturing principles and tools such as value 
stream mapping4 with water management to help facilities 
identify areas for additional conservation. While we have 
implemented numerous water reduction projects, we 
anticipate potential challenges with further reductions due 
to business growth and manufacturing changes. 
During 2019, several Baxter facilities reused water in 
cooling towers and implemented other water recovery 
projects. For example, the Baxter Drug Delivery facility 
in Round Lake, Illinois, reduced water use during the 
year by nearly 5,000 cubic meters by reusing single-pass 
water in its cooling towers. Water issues vary significantly by location. Since 2016, we 
have applied the World Business Council for Sustainable  
Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool  to evaluate the 
availability of renewable water supply at our 53 largest 
water-use locations for which the tool provided data. 
These locations represented 96% of our total water use in 
2019. During the year, facility water use combined across 
our 21 sites in water-stressed, water-scarce and extreme 
water-scarcity areas increased by 1% in absolute terms 
and decreased 1% indexed to revenue compared with 
2018. We attribute the absolute increase to production 
increases at some sites located in water-scarce areas.
The WBCSD water tool defines extreme scarcity areas 
as those with less than 500 cubic meters of renewable 
water resources per person per year. Water-scarce 
areas are those with at least 500 cubic meters but less than 1,000 cubic meters. Water-stressed areas are  
those with at least 1,000 cubic meters but less than 
1,700 cubic meters.
Wastewater
Managing wastewater discharged from Baxter’s production 
operations is one of our most significant environmental 
priorities. In 2019, 13 self-reported environmental 
incidents were exceedances of permitted wastewater 
discharge limits. None of those resulted in a fine. We are 
working with the sites to address these exceedances and 
mitigate risks to avoid future incidents.
To address existing wastewater compliance issues 
globally and to prepare for potential future ones, we 
pursue an aggressive approach to wastewater compliance, 
evaluation and risk mitigation. Our systematic wastewater 
risk management program proactively identifies 
emerging issues. This involves a holistic review of major 
manufacturing locations including the following activities: 
• Evaluate effectiveness of facility change management 
processes used to assess possible impacts to 
wastewater generation and compliance 
• Review wastewater compliance history and recent data 
to identify possible trends and areas of concern 
• Verify the effectiveness of procedures used to monitor 
compliance with wastewater permit conditions and 
methods used to investigate and remedy causes of 
noncompliant wastewater discharges 
• Use five-year production forecasts to compare 
wastewater treatment capacity and capabilities with 
anticipated production changes 
• Gauge employee awareness of wastewater operations 
and roles in ensuring compliance    Extreme
 Water Water Water
Country Stressed Scarce Scarcity
Australia  2 
Belgium  1 
China   1
Dominican Republic    1
Germany 4  
India   1
Mexico 1 1 1
Philippines 1  
Singapore 1  
Sweden  1 
United Kingdom  1 2
United States 1  1BAXTER SITES IN LOCATIONS WITH WATER RISK2020 GOAL
Reduce total water 
use by 15% indexed 
to revenue
Needs attention
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL28
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Waste
Baxter identifies leading waste reduction opportunities 
based on our highest-volume waste streams, facilities 
that produce the most waste and sites with strong 
potential to improve, among other factors. Facilities 
measure waste at the point of generation to rapidly 
identify significant sources. We track and analyze waste 
data from each major facility to assess progress toward 
waste reduction goals and identify ways to improve 
processes that generate waste. These and other 
activities reduce expenses related to raw materials use, 
waste handling and disposal.
During 2019, our operations 
generated 71,900 metric  
tons of total waste, up 4% 
from 2015 in absolute terms 
and down 10% indexed  
to revenue.5 
Our operations generated 
62,800 metric tons of 
nonhazardous waste during 
2019, flat in absolute terms and a 2% decrease indexed 
to revenue, compared with 2018. We attribute this 
change to waste reduction initiatives implemented 
and efficiency improvements at some of our largest 
manufacturing facilities. 
Reducing plastic waste and increasing recycling is 
a priority; plastic scrap from manufacturing is our 
largest waste stream, representing roughly one third 
of our nonhazardous waste. In 2019, several facilities 
implemented projects to reduce plastic scrap. For 
example, Lessines, Belgium, which had been using 100% 
virgin material for its molded parts, began to use plastic 
scrap regrind for all 2019 production. This initiative, 
along with reducing rework of molded pieces, contributed 
to saving 94 metric tons of plastic. Our Cartago, Costa 
Rica, site reduced plastic use by nearly 160 metric tons 
through operational efficiency improvements. The facility also reduced production scrap by 60%, installed new, 
more efficient packaging machines, and reduced rework 
and downtime in tubing extrusion. See Materials Use  for 
additional initiatives to reduce plastic scrap. 
In Grosotto/Sondalo (Valtellina), Italy, we partnered with a 
label producer to recover and recycle silicone-coated paper 
label liners to produce a material that can be used to make 
new labels. Through this collaboration, we recovered 5.1 
metric tons of liner material for recycling in 2019. 
Baxter also innovates to reduce the environmental impact 
of product packaging. Read more in Product Innovation . 
Regulated waste6 represents 13% of Baxter’s total waste. 
During 2019, our operations generated 9,100 metric tons 
of regulated waste, 8% higher in absolute terms than in 
2018, and 6% higher indexed to revenue. This increase was 
mainly due to site expansions and validation activities. 
In 2019, we recycled 78% of nonhazardous waste and 
56% of regulated waste for an overall recycling rate of 
75%.7 Recycling at Baxter generated nearly $5.9 million 
in net income in 2019. In 2019, 21 manufacturing 
sites8 (40% of the total) 
achieved or exceeded  
landfill diversion rates of 95%. 
Thirteen additional sites (25% 
of the total) achieved diversion 
rates of 80% or higher. We 
continue working with outside 
experts to accelerate progress 
in the coming years.
GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain
Climate change is among the most pressing global 
challenges facing the world today, posing risks for 
humans and natural ecosystems. We identify, manage and 
mitigate climate-related risks as part of our global risk 
management activities. In addition to addressing climate 
change with an aggressive GHG emissions-reduction 
strategy, we are focused on protecting our stakeholders 
by building resiliency to climate change across our supply 
chain. For more information on our governance, strategy 
and risk management as recommended by the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, see our 
response to CDP Climate Change  and our Climate Change 
& Energy position statement .
We began reporting our Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain 
Scope 3 GHG emissions in 1997 and contributed to the 
development of the initial version of the Greenhouse  
Gas Protocol . 
We estimate our 2019 GHG emissions footprint (Scope 1, 2 
and 3) at 4.9 million metric tons CO2e,9  down 6% from the 
prior year. The main factor contributing to this decrease 
was GHG emissions associated with the decreased sales 
and production of certain products in 2019. VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL
2019 RECYCLING AT BAXTER
net income 
generatedregulated 
waste recycled$5.9
million56%
nonhazardous 
waste recycled78%
overall recycling rate75%2020 GOAL
Achieve a landfill 
diversion rate of 
95% or higher at 
all manufacturing 
locations
Needs attention
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
2020 GOAL
Reduce total 
waste generation 
by 15% indexed 
to revenue
Needs attention
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS29
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Air Emissions
Since 2015, we have reduced toxic air emissions  by 43% 
indexed to revenue. Due to reductions realized under an 
aggressive air toxics program initiated in 1988, we did 
not establish a goal in this area in 2015, instead focusing 
our environmental goals on other material areas. We 
continue to monitor our air emissions and support 
facility-led initiatives in this area.Since 2015, we have offset GHG emissions related to 
global business travel with United Airlines through the 
CarbonChoice program . During 2019, this included 3,700 
metric tons CO2e offset on Baxter’s behalf through the 
Rio Preto-Jacund á REDD+  (reducing emissions from 
deforestation and forest degradation) project, a Verified 
Carbon Standard, and Climate Community & Biodiversity 
Standards project in the Brazilian Amazon.
GHG Emissions From Operations
Through 2019, we reduced our 
absolute GHG emissions from 
operations by 15% compared with 
2015, exceeding our goal. Total 
emissions from operations equaled 
619,000 metric tons CO2e in 2019. 
Reducing energy  use is vital to 
our sustainability strategy, as 
energy use accounts for 99% of 
Baxter's GHG emissions from operations. Other tactics to 
decrease GHG emissions in 2019 included fuel switching, 
cogeneration, onsite renewable energy systems, renewable 
power procurement and green buildings . By the end of 2019, 29% of our energy use for operations 
was from renewable sources. Biomass fuel for boilers 
at two of our locations10 accounted for 10%, and the 
renewable energy component of purchased electricity 
and renewable energy certificates together represented 
19%. On-site geothermal, solar photovoltaic and solar hot 
water systems contributed a small amount.
Baxter's energy procurement team works with our 
suppliers to source sustainable and economical energy 
for our manufacturing facilities. Globally in 2019, 
we purchased more than 367,000 MWh of electricity 
generated from 100% certified renewable power,  
including all electricity purchased in Illinois. 
We were recognized  as the 31st 
largest corporate purchaser 
of renewable energy in the 
United States during the year.11 
Since 2007, we have maintained carbon neutrality at our 
headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, through electricity 
generated from certified renewable energy sources. We 
offset facility-related emissions from purchased electricity. 
During 2019, we sourced 235,000 MWh of 100% renewable 
electricity for our European manufacturing sites. This 
represented 94% of total electricity for manufacturing 
in the region. In most cases, savings from our energy 
sourcing strategy in Europe finance the premium for 
green electricity contracts.EPA Green 
Power Partner
Scope 1   Facility/ Vehicle Fuel Usage
 and Refrigerant Losses 6%
Scope 2   Purchased Energy 6%
Scope 3   Purchased Goods
and Services 17%
Scope 3   Use of Sold Products 48%Scope 3   Other 13%
Scope 3   Upstream Transportation
and Distribution 10%4,888,000 
metric tons CO2eBAXTER’S GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOOTPRINT, 2019
Thousand Metric
Tons CO2eMetric Tons CO2e per Million Dollars of Sales
 2017 2018 2019
North America 250 255       264
Latin America 67 70       67
EMEA 126 124       121
Asia Pacific 160 164       166
Metric tons CO2e per 57 55 54
Million Dollars of Sales0100200300400500600700
010203040506070GHG EMISSIONS FROM BAXTER OPERATIONS*
* The regional breakdown of the data included in this graph reflects the 
structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) 
organization and the categorization of data in the EHS&S global information 
management system through 2019.
2020 GOAL
Reduce absolute 
GHG emissions 
by 10%
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSAchievedVIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  AND VALUE 
CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG  
EMISSIONS TABLE  FOR MORE DETAIL
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  AND VALUE 
CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG  
EMISSIONS TABLE  FOR MORE DETAIL30
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 30Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
Baxter is committed to driving sustainable practices in our global supply chain, which extends from the producers of 
the raw materials we use in manufacturing to the distribution network for product delivery to patients and healthcare 
providers. Collaboration is central to our approach, and we engage our suppliers on key corporate responsibility issues, 
including human rights, business ethics, labor practices, health and safety, and environmental performance.  
Responsible Procurement
Baxter works to increase the diversity of our suppliers and 
support sustainable practices within and across our supply 
chain. In addition to traditional considerations, such as quality 
and price,  we integrate social and environmental criteria into 
our requests for proposal and supplier contract templates.
Supplier Diversity
Baxter develops mutually  
beneficial relationships with  
small and diverse suppliers  
and continually works to 
increase the diversity of our 
supplier base. During 2019,  
our purchases with diverse 
suppliers totaled 5.2% of 
relevant spending.1We also develop the capability of diverse suppliers 
through targeted matchmaker conferences and 
networking events. In 2019, we hosted our annual 
Supplier Diversity Exchange at our corporate 
headquarters. The half-day networking event educated 
small, minority-owned, women-owned and other diverse 
business enterprises on best practices for conducting 
business with Baxter. 
During 2019, one of our disability-owned suppliers, 
Caption First, provided captioning services for a  
Baxter EnAbles Business Resource Group event.  
This partnership illustrates the importance Baxter 
places on inclusion and diversity within our supply 
chain and our workforce.
Baxter is a Committed Corporation in Chicago United’s  
Five Forward Initiative —a program that encourages 
companies to foster economic opportunity by building 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
RESPONSIBLE 
PROCUREMENT 
AND LOGISTICS
Implement world-class sustainability 
practices with key partners* Spending with suppliers that certify for multiple categories is included in the total for each category. United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through 
September 30 of the year noted).of participating 
suppliers earned 
advanced or moderate 
scores on our 
Supplier Corporate 
Responsibility Survey82%
in spending with 
minority-owned 
businesses and
in spending with women-
owned businesses*$101.8million
$96.0millionof UPS shipping outside 
the United States offset 
using carbon credits, 
nearly 2,900 metric tons 
CO2e of greenhouse gas 
emissions100%
2020 GOAL
Increase 
spending with 
diverse suppliers  
to 6% of relevant 
spending
On track
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS31
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
strategic relationships with local, minority-owned 
businesses. In 2019, we were recognized by Chicago 
United at the diamond level, the highest level possible, 
for our participation in this initiative and the commitment 
we demonstrate to supplier diversity.
We maintain corporate memberships with many 
organizations that promote and certify diverse suppliers, 
and have served on the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council Board. These relationships help 
us identify diverse suppliers for inclusion in our supply 
chain, increase our visibility within the diverse supplier 
community and advance progress in this area more broadly.
Learn more  about supplier diversity at Baxter.Protecting Human Rights in Our Supply Chain
Baxter's Global Human Rights Policy  outlines our 
commitment to respect human rights across the value 
chain and our expectation that suppliers do the same, 
either in accordance with our policy or under their own 
similar policies. To enable this, we make appropriate 
training available to targeted suppliers, conduct supplier 
assessments and report progress. 
Baxter adheres to supply chain transparency 
requirements where applicable, through publicly 
available statements. In addition to our Global Human 
Rights Policy, Baxter’s UK Modern Slavery Statement  
declares our commitments and approach to ensuring 
that our local operations and global supply chain are 
free from modern slavery practices, including child 
labor, forced and bonded labor, and human trafficking. 
We also have a position statement related to the 
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 . 
In addition, for some products sold in the UK, we have 
implemented a Labor Standards Assurance System (LSAS). 
It includes a UK LSAS Policy , a relevant labor standards 
supply chain risk assessment, management commitment, 
employee awareness training and key performance 
indicators. This management system provides us with a 
clear framework through which to approach human rights 
and labor standards and improves our ability to manage 
supply chain risks in these areas. We have a cross-
functional team that maintains our LSAS program and 
integrates it with our supplier sustainability work. 
Managing Procurement Risks
Baxter takes a risk-based approach to managing 
corporate responsibility issues in our supply chain. Our 
Supplier Quality Standards  and Ethics and Compliance  
Standards for Baxter Suppliers  outline expectations and 
requirements for all our suppliers.To improve our corporate responsibility performance, 
we integrate supplier sustainability into our overall 
supplier management processes and conduct an annual 
assessment of key suppliers (representing 70% of Baxter’s 
supplier spend) to evaluate cost, delivery, quality and risk. 
As part of this process we also examine the financial risk 
of suppliers to ensure we don’t have any disruptions in 
supply. We work with suppliers who receive low scores 
on this assessment to develop continuous improvement 
plans, which we review regularly to monitor progress. 
Scores from our annual Supplier Corporate Responsibility  
Survey  feed directly into this assessment.
Using a trusted third-party service, we receive 
notifications if disruptions occur in areas of the world 
where our suppliers are located. Such disruptions could 
include natural disasters, fires, major weather events or 
geopolitical activity. Using this information, we’re able to 
respond quickly to ensure supply continuity.SPENDING WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS, 2019 *
$167.0
million
to small 
businesses$101.8
million
to minority-owned 
businesses
$3.8
million
to veteran-owned 
businesses
$1.9
million
to HUBZone-certified 
businesses$0.4
million
to service-disabled-
veteran-owned businesses$96.0
million
to women-owned 
businesses
$68.8
million
to small 
disadvantaged
businesses$
* Spending with suppliers that certify for multiple categories is included in 
the total for each category. United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis 
(October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL• Supplier Quality Standards
• Ethics and Compliance Standards 
 for Baxter Suppliers
• Global Human Rights Policy
• UK Labor Standards Assurance System
• Identify top suppliers by annual spend
• Assess comparative risk based on   
 geographic location, commodity type   
 and other factors
• Conduct Supplier Corporate    
 Responsibility Survey
• Conduct supplier audits 
• Develop and confirm progress on   
 corrective action plansCommunicate 
clear policies and 
standards
Identify and 
prioritize suppliers 
based on risk 
Use established 
processes and metrics 
to monitor progress
Regularly disclose 
performance and 
highlight progress• Supplier Corporate Responsibility   
 Survey report card
• Annual Corporate Responsibility Report
• Investor surveys
• Ratings and rankingsEstablish Policies
Assess Risk
Monitor and Manage Performance
Report PerformanceSUPPLY CHAIN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM32
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey
Baxter conducts an annual Supplier Corporate 
Responsibility Survey to better understand the 
programs and performance of our suppliers and drive 
continuous improvement. In 2019 and early 2020, we 
engaged EcoVadis to use its sustainability ratings 
platform to survey our supplier base and validate 
responses in the areas of environment, labor and 
human rights, ethics, and sustainable procurement. 
A total of 101 suppliers participated in the survey. Of 
those, 48% were from Europe, Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA); 39% from the Americas; and 14% from Asia 
Pacific (APAC).2 Suppliers receive detailed scorecards 
on their corporate responsibility management 
practices, including information about strengths 
and benchmark comparisons, as well as actionable improvement areas. We plan to use these scorecards 
to drive ongoing improvement and anticipate an 
increase in participation as we expand our efforts to 
engage suppliers in the coming years.
Supplier Audits
In past years, the Baxter Supplier Sustainability 
team has worked with our Environmental, Health, 
Safety and Sustainability team to conduct supplier 
audits, aligned with the Pharmaceutical Supply  
Chain Initiative (PSCI)  protocol, which covers ethics; 
labor; environment, health and safety; and related 
management systems. During 2019, we did not 
conduct any of these audits as we worked to expand 
our capabilities in this area. We plan to reinstitute 
these audits in future years.
 Advanced Moderate Partial Insufficient
 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019
Environment 40% 36% 45% 47% 12% 17% 2% 1%
Labor and Human Rights  23% 23% 55% 54% 21% 23% 1% 1%
Ethics 17% 15% 55% 58% 26% 27% 1% 1%
Sustainable Procurement  18% 22% 40% 43% 40% 33% 2% 3%
Overall 25% 27% 60% 55% 14% 18% 1% 1%
Cross-Industry Average  3% 3% 38% 39% 55% 54% 3% 4%Percent of Participating Suppliers
* The performance categories presented in this table align with the EcoVadis methodology. “Advanced” indicates structured and proactive corporate responsibility (CR) approach; 
policies and tangible actions on major topics with significant CR reporting. “Moderate” indicates structured and proactive CR approach; policies and tangible actions on major 
topics with basic CR reporting. “Partial” indicates no structured CR approach; few tangible actions on selected topics; certifications related to sites and/or products are only partial. 
“Insufficient” indicates no engagements or tangible actions regarding CR. Evidence in certain cases of misconduct (e.g. pollution, corruption).SUMMARY OF SUPPLIER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SURVEY SCORES, 2018 –2019 *During 2019, 725 audits of Baxter suppliers were 
conducted related to management systems for product 
quality. Learn more about our approach to patient
safety and quality .
Industry Collaboration
Baxter collaborates with other companies and 
organizations within the healthcare industry to improve 
efficiency and advance responsible procurement. 
We are a member of PSCI and have served on the 
PSCI advisory panel. We encourage our suppliers to 
participate in the PSCI supply chain audit program 
and leverage other PSCI capability-building 
opportunities. In addition, we have taken part in the 
PSCI Supplier Capability Building Committee and 
several subcommittees, including the Human Rights 
and Labor subcommittee. Through this work, we 
have helped to establish industrywide best practices, 
including those related to management systems, 
human rights/labor, and ethics and compliance in the 
pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. 
To establish a secure supply chain, we participate in 
programs such as the Customs Trade Partnership 
Against Terrorism Program (CTPAT), which supports 
a secure and reliable supply of lifesaving medical 
products. This includes shipments of raw materials 
and finished products both to and from various 
Baxter locations, foreign suppliers, distributors and 
customers. As an importer and exporter, Baxter has 
been recognized as a Tier III Partner (the highest level 
possible) in the program since 2011. During 2019, the 
U.S. Customs and Border Protection agency conducted 
a CTPAT revalidation of our site in Memphis, Tennessee. 
We received a positive report, confirming that Baxter 
meets or exceeds CTPAT criteria.33
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Green Logistics
Baxter transports more than five million metric tons of 
raw materials and finished goods each year throughout 
our global supply chain, primarily in partnership with 
third-party vendors and carriers. We have processes 
and initiatives to reduce the environmental impact of 
our distribution activities and decrease greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions related to product transport. 
Metric Tons CO2eKilograms CO2e per
Metric Ton of Products Transported
2017 2018    2019 *0100,000200,000300,000400,000500,000600,000
020406080100
Ocean Rail Road Air23%918998
14%
3%
60%16%
12%
4%
68%11%
11%
11%
66%WORLDWIDE GHG EMISSIONS FROM PRODUCT TRANSPORT BY MODE
* Segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding.Our worldwide GHG emissions from product transport 
totaled 472,500 metric tons CO2e in 2019. This is 
equivalent to 89 kilograms CO2e per metric ton of 
products transported, a 9% decrease from 2018. 
Baxter’s approach to improving efficiency and 
decreasing emissions from product transport includes: 
Environmentally responsible 
partnerships     Baxter is 
one of a select number of 
companies that participate 
in the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency's 
SmartWay program as both a 
Carrier and Shipper Partner. 
We use carbon credits to 
offset all of our UPS shipping 
outside the United States. 
During 2019, we offset nearly 2,900 metric tons CO2e 
of GHG emissions through this program. 
Technology innovation     We are continuing to pilot 
and implement transportation methods that decrease 
emissions, with a focus on deliveries in urban areas. 
During 2019, we began using vans fueled by liquefied 
natural gas for deliveries in Milan and Rome, Italy. 
We also laid the groundwork to begin using electric 
vehicles for deliveries in London, England, in 2020.   
Modal shift     Combining multiple transportation 
modes for a single shipment—for example, converting 
road to rail for parts of a route—can decrease costs 
and overall GHG emissions. In 2019, we continued 
converting road freight to rail worldwide. To replace 
air freight with ocean and rail wherever possible,  
we have implemented an air approval process across 
the company that requires all large, unplanned 
shipments to receive senior manager approval. As a result, the total weight of air freight declined 
by 14% in 2019 compared with 2018, and GHG 
emissions associated with air freight decreased by 
34%, equivalent to 27,300 metric tons CO2e. In cases 
where air shipments are still necessary, we are 
reducing plastic waste through the use of reusable, 
temperature-controlled packaging. 
Optimizing the distribution network     The use of 
innovative technologies, such as transport management 
systems and route optimization tools, saves time and 
money while improving environmental performance. 
Therefore, we have implemented an ocean export 
consolidation center for the majority of our EMEA export 
shipments, with continued growth in the number of 
facilities using the center in 2019. The center combines 
shipments from different warehouse locations in Europe 
and optimizes loads so that containers are less likely to 
be shipped partially full. This reduces the total number 
of containers shipped and saves money while increasing 
supply frequency. In this way, we avoided the use of 232 
ocean containers that would have otherwise shipped in 
2019, up from 204 containers avoided in 2018. 
Conservation of resources     When possible, we 
conserve natural resources at our distribution facilities. 
In 2019, for example, our Hechingen, Germany, facility 
reduced the number of wooden pallets used by 30% 
compared with 2018 through load optimization. During 
the year, our Marion (North Cove), North Carolina, 
facility tested use of recycled wood pallets for outbound 
shipments. The program is expected to reduce the use 
of new wooden pallets by 60,000 annually, equivalent 
to approximately 7,500 trees.3 We are exploring the 
possibility of using this approach globally and assessing 
pallet designs that use less wood. Additionally, we are 
evaluating a shift toward reusable plastic pallets and slip 
sheets when possible.2020 GOAL
Expand green 
transport 
partnerships 
to all business 
regions 
globally
Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  
FOR MORE DETAIL34
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 34Guided by our mission and inspired by the millions of patients and caregivers who rely on our products, we are dedicated 
to nurturing, developing and delivering innovative healthcare solutions. Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation 
strategically invest in new collaborations and partnerships with world-renowned institutions, deploying our people, 
products and grants globally to increase access to Baxter’s lifesaving products and therapies. Our Government Affairs 
and Public Policy team works with lawmakers, governments and policymakers to support this objective.
Product Donations
Making sure that healthcare providers and patients 
around the world have access to Baxter’s lifesaving 
innovations is essential—including underserved 
communities and people facing extenuating hardships, 
whether due to financial constraints or natural disasters. 
Targeted product donations is one way Baxter expands 
access to care in these situations. 
Humanitarian 
Assistance:  
Manufacture-To-
Donate Program
We manufacture products 
twice a year specifically for 
donation to our three trusted 
humanitarian partners: 
Americares , Direct Relief  
and Partners In Health .  This manufacture-to-donate strategy, an industry best 
practice, means our partners can rely on having critically 
needed, long-dated products year-round—not just during 
emergency situations. In 2019, we donated products 
valued at nearly $17 million, enhancing access to care for 
patients around the world. See Summary of 2019 Giving .
Through our partnership with Americares, we also 
donate products to support U.S. medical outreach 
teams that travel overseas to provide charitable care to 
underserved populations. During 2019, Baxter products 
were distributed in 39 countries as part of 274 medical 
mission trips supported by Americares. Learn more  about 
Baxter’s longstanding partnership with Americares.  
Our product donation strategy aligns with the guidance 
established by the World Health Organization guidelines  
for medicine donations  and the Partnership for Quality  
Medical Donations (PQMD) Guidelines . Baxter serves on 
the board of PQMD to support global best practices in 
product donations. 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
INNOVATION  
THAT EXPANDS 
ACCESS TO CARE
Improve access to healthcare  
for the underservedin products 
donatedNearly
$17millionpatients in 9 countries 
served by outpatient 
dialysis clinics and centers 
of excellence through 
Baxter Renal Care Services23,000+
people benefited 
from the Driving 
Your Health program 
since 2016 866 ,000+
2020 GOAL
Pre-position donated 
products with donor 
partners to enable 
optimal distribution 
and first-on-scene 
response
Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS35
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
U.S. Patient Assistance Program
Through our U.S. Patient Assistance Program, we 
make chemotherapy drugs available to cancer patients 
who have financial barriers to access and who lack 
insurance or prescription drug coverage. We have offered 
Cyclophosphamide since the program’s inception in 2009, 
and in 2019, we expanded to include Doxil. 
Disaster Relief
We support disaster relief efforts that expand access 
to care in partnership with our humanitarian partners 
through disaster preparedness, and immediate 
response and recovery efforts. During 2019, we 
responded to several disasters globally. For example, 
we provided emergency product donations to support 
Hurricane Dorian relief efforts in addition to disaster 
response grants from the Baxter International 
Foundation. Global disaster relief partners included 
the American Red Cross, Americares, Direct Relief, 
International Medical Corps and UNICEF USA. 
Additionally, our Baxter Employee Disaster Relief Fund 
enables employees to donate funds to help co-workers 
impacted by disasters globally. The Baxter International 
Foundation provided seed funding and covers all costs 
related to management of the Fund, which allows 100% 
of employee donations to reach fellow colleagues.
The Baxter International Foundation
The Baxter International Foundation , the philanthropic 
arm of Baxter International Inc., partners with 
organizations around the world to increase access to care 
for the underserved; to develop the next generation of 
healthcare innovators; and to create a long-lasting impact 
in the communities where our employees live and work. 
In 2019, the Foundation provided nearly $7 million in cash 
contributions for programs in 31 countries. The grants 
funded programs focused on advancing safe surgery, 
diabetes prevention, nutrition and STEM education.Signature Partnerships
From 2016 through 2019, 
Baxter partnered on its 
first signature grant to 
support Driving Your Health 
(Manejando Tu Salud)—a free 
community mobile medical 
program that expanded 
access to healthcare in 
underserved communities 
throughout greater  
Mexico City. At the conclusion 
of our grant in 2019, the  
program had directly 
benefited approximately 
85,400 people and indirectly benefited 781,300 people. Our 
partners on this project included Direct Relief, Asociación 
Mexicana de Diabetes de la Ciudad de México A.C.,  
Casa de la Amistad para Niños con Cáncer, I.A.P., 
Asociación Gilberto A.C. and Orden de Malta de México A.C.In 2019, the Baxter International Foundation implemented 
a new strategy to emphasize larger-scale, multiyear 
partnerships to help enhance quality healthcare in 
underserved communities globally. This new strategy is 
informed by the success of Driving Your Health, our first 
signature grant made in partnership with Direct Relief in 
Mexico. Through these investments, we are focused on 
improving access to care in the four primary areas shown 
in the graphic below.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: INCREASING ACCESS TO CARE
Noncommunicable Diseases/
Diabetes Prevention
Combat diabetes, 
a precursor to kidney 
disease, by supporting 
interventions that 
tackle barriers to awareness 
and prevention in 
underserved communities.Digital and Telehealth 
Innovations
Support innovative 
health solutions 
and technologies that 
increase access to 
quality care 
for underserved 
communities.Nutrition/
Malnutrition
Build healthy communities 
and remove barriers to access 
healthy food by investing in 
programs that address the 
coexistence of malnutrition 
with obesity and diet-related 
noncommunicable disease.Clean Water/
WASH Initiatives
Remove barriers 
to access clean water 
by investing in global 
programs that improve 
water, sanitation and hygiene 
(WASH) practices in 
underserved communities.
For stories that illustrate the impact of Driving Your Health, view the 
interactive story map .2020 GOAL
Establish the Baxter 
International 
Foundation 
Partnership Grant 
program in 2016 
to drive increased 
access to healthcare 
for an incremental 
10,000 patients 
annually
Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS36
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Advancing Safe Surgery in India     In 2019, Baxter established 
a three-year $2.2 million partnership with Operation Smile 
to advance safe surgery in underserved communities. The 
partnership launched a new care center in Durgapur, West 
Bengal, and supports care centers in Mumbai, Srinagar 
and Bangalore that are operated in collaboration with 
Inga Health Foundation. These four centers treat patients 
of all ages with cleft conditions and work to improve the 
quality and completeness of cleft care in the country. The 
partnership also expands opportunities for education and 
training of local healthcare workers, equipping them with 
the skills and knowledge needed to deliver high-quality 
patient care. In the first year of the partnership, Operation 
Smile directly reached more than 10,000 individuals, 
including serving more than 2,500 patients with surgical 
and multidisciplinary services. To further our impact, in 
October 2019, Baxter employees around the world flashed 
their biggest smiles to raise money in honor of World Smile 
Day and advance access to safe surgery worldwide. All 
donations were matched 2-to-1 by the Baxter International 
Foundation, raising more than $50,000 in total. Learn more .
Transformative Innovation Awards    In partnership with 
Direct Relief, we launched a new program in 2019—the 
Transformative Innovation Awards for Community Health: 
Incorporating Nutrition to Improve Diabetes Health Outcomes. 
This three-year $750,000 initiative aims to advance innovation in 
diabetes patient care at health centers and free and charitable clinics. In the inaugural year, Direct Relief provided $200,000 
in awards to four organizations in the Greater Chicago area, 
which will expand access to care and education about diabetes 
and nutrition for prediabetic and diabetic patients. Learn more . 
Baxter International Foundation Prize Programs
To support ongoing advancements that benefit patients 
and expand access to care, Baxter sponsors three prize 
programs that recognize organizations and individuals 
who have made outstanding contributions and exhibited 
leadership in healthcare research and health service 
delivery. The William B. Graham Prize  is the highest 
distinction that researchers in the health services field 
can achieve, recognizing global contributions to improving 
public health through research. The Foster G. McGaw  
Prize  recognizes U.S. healthcare organizations that deliver 
innovative programs to improve community health and  
well-being. The Episteme Award  is bestowed biennially to a 
nurse who has contributed significantly to discovery, practice 
and knowledge development in the field of nursing.
Collaborating to Improve Healthcare
Through partnerships and stakeholder engagement, Baxter 
works to tackle global health challenges and expand the 
availability of our treatments, strengthen health systems and 
support public health worldwide through innovative solutions. Our work includes educating patients, training physicians 
and healthcare professionals, and sharing best practices 
in manufacturing and treatment. Additionally, we 
collaborate with governments, companies and nonprofit 
organizations to promote policies and standards that 
enhance patient access to therapy and products. Through 
these efforts we are working to provide transformative 
solutions to improve healthcare. 
Sharing Best Practices for Renal Care
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affects 10% of the global 
population.1 We estimate as many as four million people 
suffer from renal failure globally, which is the last stage of 
the disease progression and requires dialysis or a kidney 
transplant to stay alive. It’s further estimated that millions 
more go undiagnosed and untreated globally. At Baxter, we 
seek to expand access to care and innovate across renal 
care therapies to reduce complications, improve outcomes 
and make dialysis care more efficient and effective.
 Our Baxter Renal Care Services , 
located in nine countries, 
function as outpatient dialysis 
clinics and centers of excellence 
to support patients through  
CKD management, peritoneal 
dialysis (PD) and hemodialysis 
therapies. We are currently 
caring for more than 23,000 
patients in these clinics globally. 
During 2018, Baxter Renal Care Services  partnered with 
a government hospital in rural Indonesia to launch a pilot 
clinic to support access to the best clinical practices in PD 
and improve patient outcomes. By the end of 2019, the pilot 
clinic had more than 50 patients, and we are now engaging 
other facilities to discuss how we can replicate this clinic 
model throughout the country. We are also collaborating 
with the Ministry of Health to explore new business models 
that target early care for CKD management, which can 
reduce the economic burden on the public health system 
and improve overall clinical outcomes. 2020 GOAL
Launch two 
new emerging 
market business 
models in 
Baxter’s renal 
business
Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALS
Shyam received surgery at the care center in Durgapur, 
India, to repair his cleft lip when he was three years old.“We are increasing access [to healthcare], making 
surgery affordable and making surgery available to 
poor patients in need. We have been able to do this 
thanks to the grant from Baxter and their confidence 
in Operation Smile. ”
ABHISHEK SENGUPTA    EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, OPERATION SMILE INDIA37
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
We opened our second Baxter Renal Care Services  clinic 
in China in 2019. Located in Chengdu, the project was 
implemented in partnership with a major local medical 
device supplier, and it was recognized by local authorities 
as one of the most important foreign investments in the 
area’s healthcare sector. This clinic has room for up to 50 
dialysis beds, with the potential to serve approximately 
450 renal patients. Remote consultation technology 
connects the clinic to leading healthcare professionals 
nationwide for medical advice. Our first clinic in China 
opened in 2018 in Xiamen, where it serves an average of 
20 patients per month. Both clinics offer patient-centric 
care models, including extensive patient education and 
access to leading dialysis care options.
Additionally, we have a partnership with the International 
Society of Nephrology (ISN) to advance CKD education 
and improve access to therapy, particularly in emerging 
markets where the disease prevalence is growing fastest. 
The collaboration supports greater disease and therapy 
research and education, and works to help establish 
better care models that support higher standards of care 
at a lower cost in these countries. In 2019, we participated 
in an ISN stakeholder meeting with a focus on integrated 
kidney care in Indonesia. 
We also announced the expansion of the Dialysis Health  
Imperative for Access, Choice and Equity program  in the 
United States in 2019. This collaboration between Baxter, 
the NAACP and the Alliance for Home Dialysis aims to 
inform individuals within African-American communities 
in the United States about access to kidney care and the 
disproportionate impact kidney disease has on African-
Americans and other people of color. This brings our 
three-year partnership investment to nearly $850,000. 
Public Policy
To deliver on Baxter’s mission of saving and sustaining 
lives, we advocate for issues related to reimbursement, 
tax, trade and a variety of regulatory concerns. Baxter's 
Government Affairs and Public Policy team works with lawmakers, governments and policymakers worldwide  
to support patient access to Baxter’s lifesaving therapies, 
improve the regulatory environment and reimbursement 
structure for our therapies, and increase understanding 
of the benefits of those therapies. We also collaborate 
with clinicians, nongovernmental organizations and 
patient groups to improve access to healthcare for 
millions of people worldwide. 
See Baxter’s 2019 Political Contributions Report  for 
details about our political contributions as well as our 
membership in certain trade and industry groups. 
During 2019, our key public policy focus areas included: 
Advancing American Kidney Health Initiative    In 2019, 
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
unveiled an initiative aimed at increasing home dialysis and 
transplantation in the United States called the Advancing 
American Kidney Health Initiative (AAKHI). The centerpiece 
of AAKHI is the End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Treatment 
Choices (ETC) Model, a mandatory payment model that 
provides financial incentives to dialysis clinics for achieving 
higher rates of home dialysis and transplantation. Currently 
about 90% of renal patients receive dialysis in a center, 
even though a home dialysis therapy option, such as PD, 
offers the convenience of therapy at home, provides equal 
or better outcomes for many patients and is a less costly 
alternative. Baxter supports the ETC Model and would 
like to see a comprehensive model that includes financial 
incentives for providers finalized in 2020.  In 2019, Baxter committed to supporting AAKHI by increasing PD supply 
for home dialysis in the United States. We announced  
that we would invest up to $500 million and create up 
to 1,000 new jobs in the United States as part of this 
commitment, provided the ETC model moves forward  
as a comprehensive, mandatory program.
Natural disaster and pandemic relief    During 2019, 
we continued to work with members of congress, the 
administration, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and 
the healthcare stakeholder community to minimize 
disruptions to patients caused by natural disasters. 
Among other activities, this included promoting U.S. 
public health preparedness in the case of a pandemic. 
Promoting innovation in products for end-stage  
renal disease    During 2019, we supported U.S. 
legislation and administration policy that provides 
incentives to develop new, innovative devices for patients 
suffering from ESRD. 
Home delivery of renal products    In the United States, 
state laws and regulations govern pharmaceuticals 
dispensing. We work to help shape state policies to better 
align with our Renal HomeCare Services. 
Supporting diverse populations    During 2019, Baxter 
representatives attended several events to learn more 
about health disparities affecting diverse populations 
and engaged key leaders about our efforts to serve 
patients with ESRD, which disproportionately impacts 
minority populations. These events included the National 
Minority Quality Forum Summit, the Congressional Black 
Caucus Foundation Annual Legislative Conference, and 
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Public 
Policy Conference. 
Medical device tax repeal    The medical device tax was 
fully repealed in late 2019. This provides Baxter additional 
opportunities to create new life-changing innovations 
for patients, support next-generation research and 
development, and potentially build new facilities or invest 
in other infrastructure projects.
Baxter CEO Joe Almeida meeting with U.S. Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, Alex Azar, in our Bloomington, Indiana, facility.BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT38
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38Every day, Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation strive to make a meaningful difference in the lives of 
people who depend on our products and in the communities where our employees live, work and give. Through 
partnerships and social investments, we increase access to healthcare for the underserved , develop the next 
generation of innovators who will lead the way in advancing healthcare, and create a positive, long-lasting impact 
in communities worldwide. In addition, we actively encourage employee engagement in our communities through 
volunteerism and matching gift programs.
Supporting Access to Clean Water  
and Community Wellness
Access to clean water is 
crucial for good health 
and well-being, proper 
sanitation and hygiene, 
and disease prevention. 
Unfortunately, this 
vital natural resource 
is limited in many 
areas of the world, 
disproportionately 
affecting communities 
with already constrained health infrastructure. 
To improve the health of people in underserved 
communities, Baxter invests in projects that support 
access to clean water and enhance sanitation in 
water-stressed areas where we have facilities. During 2019, we continued our work with Fundación Solar , 
a nonprofit in Guatemala, to reduce natural resource 
use, improve community health, provide access to clean 
drinking water and empower women in Aguacatán, 
Huehuetenango. During 2019, Fundación Solar provided 
250 families in five Aguacatán communities with water 
filters and wood-burning stoves that are safer and more 
energy-efficient than the traditional method of open-fire 
cooking. Fundación Solar also established a solar-
powered system to capture rainwater at the Oficial Rural 
Mixta school, located in Llano del Coyote. The water will 
be used throughout the facility for handwashing and 
cleaning. Other partners engaged in this initiative include 
the Guatemalan Ministry of the Environment, Universidad 
del Valle and the United Nations.
We also continued our work on Project Srujal—a 
program that will provide clean water to 11 villages near 
Baxter’s manufacturing site in Ahmedabad, India, home 
to 1,500 of our employees. This multimillion-dollar 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
SERVING OUR 
COMMUNITIES
Support communities worldwide  
in enduring ways
* By Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation.in cash and 
products contributed 
to communities 
worldwide*$28million+
contributed by the Baxter 
International Foundation 
for the Matching Gift and 
Dollars for Doers Programs$813,000
countries reached 
through philanthropic 
initiatives*92
2020 GOAL
Complete two 
projects that support 
access to clean 
water or enhance 
sanitation in water-
stressed areas
Achieved
VIEW ALL 2020 GOALSBAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT39
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
initiative aims to benefit 25,000 community members 
by 2021. The project goals include: establishing water-
related infrastructure, strengthening the villages’ ability 
to sustainably manage water resources, educating 
local communities about water safety and security, and 
building capacity to manage resources. As of the end of 
2019, Project Srujal had supported thousands of people 
through the construction of water tanks, bore wells, 
cattle troughs, water meters and rooftop rainwater 
harvesting structures. In addition, the project organized 
workshops in all 11 villages to promote education and 
behavioral change.
Fostering Tomorrow’s Innovation 
Through STEM
Healthcare innovation is Baxter’s lifeblood. Our goal is 
to develop the next generation of scientists, engineers 
and healthcare professionals. We take a hands-on 
approach to achieve this goal by supporting teachers 
and science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) 
education; encouraging employees to serve as mentors 
in communities worldwide; and creating diverse learning 
opportunities in the sciences. Through our STEM 
partners and committed employees, we are helping to 
advance tomorrow’s healthcare breakthroughs. In 2019, we launched the STEM Innovation Council—
composed of Baxter leaders in research and 
development, biosurgery, clinical development, 
innovation and healthcare policy—to help optimize the 
Baxter International Foundation’s strategic investments 
in STEM education partnerships globally. We also 
invited our STEM partners to a leadership summit, 
which brought together key stakeholders from across 
the STEM community to discuss how their collective 
resources, programs and relationships can create 
lasting community impact. 
Additionally, during 2019, in continued partnership with 
Northwestern University, the Baxter Center for Science  
Education  hosted 23 life science workshops for 334 
teachers across 156 schools in Illinois. Through this 
partnership we have reached 233,000 students since 2009.
#BaxterGivesBack:  
Employee Volunteerism and Giving
Each year, our employees donate thousands of dollars 
and hours to help make a meaningful difference in 
Baxter communities globally. 
The Baxter International Foundation is proud to 
support and amplify the initiatives of our employees 
through two programs. The Baxter International 
Foundation Matching Gift Program matches employee 
donations,1 up to $5,000 per year per employee.  
In 2019, the Foundation provided more than $743,000 
to match employee giving. Employees are also  
eligible for the Foundation’s Dollars for Doers 
Program, translating their time into volunteer grants 
for eligible organizations. In 2019, 193 Dollars for 
Doers grants provided more than $70,000 to hundreds 
of community organizations. By the end of the year, 
employees had volunteered more than 27,500 hours  
in 17 countries worldwide. To further encourage local community engagement 
during 2019, the Baxter International Foundation 
launched a new program to provide each of our eight 
Business Resource Groups (BRGs) with a grant to extend 
to a nonprofit that supports diversity and inclusion 
initiatives. Organizations selected focus on a range of 
priorities, including girls in STEM, disability inclusion, 
women’s career empowerment and LGBTQ initiatives. 
Baxter World Environment Week
Through Baxter World Environment Week, we engage 
and educate employees on environmental sustainability 
and demonstrate our commitment to environmental 
responsibility and community engagement. In 2019, 
employees at 82 facilities in 31 countries, many with 
their families, sponsored events that included refuse 
clean-ups, tree plantings, native plant restoration and 
maintenance projects, native plant sales, and visits to 
local nature preserves, parks and gardens. Throughout 
the week, many Baxter employees also shared green 
practices, such as promoting sustainable commutes to 
work through use of public transportation, carpooling 
and bicycling; encouraging reusable water bottles; 
demonstrating ways to reuse plastics waste, such as 
collecting plastic shopping bags to make sleeping mats; 
and serving vegetarian and locally sourced meals.
Roof rain water harvesting structures have been instrumental in providing 
access to drinking water and reducing the burden on women who otherwise 
have to walk miles to source clean water. Baxter funded the construction of 
this structure, near our manufacturing facility in Ahmedabad, India.  
Employees from our Hong Kong, China, sales office planted 30 native tree species 
at the Kadoorie Farm and Botanic Garden to support reforestation efforts.Apex Companies LLC has has provided assurance on the 
content in this Baxter World Environment Week section.BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT40
Product  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Summary of 2019 Giving
During 2019, Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation donated cash and products valued at more than 
$28 million to organizations serving the communities where our employees live and work.BAXTER AND THE BAXTER INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION 
CHARITABLE GIVING  (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS )
 2017      2018 2019
Baxter Product Donations to Aid Organizations*  
Products/Patient Assistance Programs $8.83 $5.60 $16.81
Business and Facility Cash Donations
Within U.S.  $3.35 $1.55 $1.21
Outside U.S.  $4.49 $3.81 $3.56
Total  $7.84 $5.36 $4.77
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions
Within U.S. (including Puerto Rico)  
Grants**  $1.72 $4.64 $4.77
Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers $1.03 $0.83 $0.81 
Scholarships  $0.26 $0.20 $0.15
Prize Programs  $0.32 $0.41  $0.33
Outside U.S.  
Grants  $0.64 $0.43 $0.66
Scholarships  $0.12 $0.15 $0.11
Total Foundation Contributions  $4.09 $6.66 $6.83
Total Charitable Giving  $20.76 $17.62 $28.41Subtotal              $3.33 $6.08 $6.06
Subtotal              $0.76 $0.58 $0.77
*Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in 
community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory 
environment, manufacturing processes and changes in product mix and marketing. 
We identify opportunities to donate and respond to community and humanitarian 
aid partners as appropriate. Value of products donated (provided at no cost) is 
provided by partners based on wholesale acquisition cost at the time of donation. 
This number may be greater or less than the value of Baxter products distributed 
during the year by our relief partners. See Innovation That Expands Access to Care .
Contributions to U.S.-based 501(c)(3) organizations for programs within and 
outside of the United States.**employees 
participated 1,500
contributed by the Foundation 
for Matching Gifts and 
Dollars for Doers Programs$813,000
employee 
volunteer hours*27,500+
countries 
reached through 
employee giving17
organizations 
received gifts of time 
and money1,350
*#BAXTERGIVESBACK THROUGH EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM AND GIVING, 2019
Total volunteer hours include personal time and Baxter paid time. Baxter offers U.S. employees two days of paid-time-off per year to volunteer.
Baxter Product Distributed
Cash Contributions*
Both92 countries 
reached through:BAXTER GLOBAL GIVING, 2019
*Reflects programmatic location of Baxter International Foundation cash grants and scholarships.41
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   About This Report and Recognition
About This Report 
External Reporting Standards 
To develop our corporate responsibility reporting 
approach, we have considered the disclosure 
frameworks and guidance of leading sustainability 
standards and reporting organizations, including the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the U.N. 
Sustainable Development Goals and third-party raters 
and rankers focused on environmental, social and 
governance issues. 
We were one of the 
first companies to pilot 
the GRI Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines, in 
1999, and belong to the GRI Community. We referenced 
the GRI 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards  in the 
development of this report. See the GRI Index  for detail.
Feedback 
Readers of this report can provide comments and 
suggestions to us via email:  
corporate_responsibility_report @baxter.com . 
Scope of This Report 
The performance and other data in this report are 
from calendar year 2019 unless stated otherwise. 
Some examples and program descriptions include 
information from 2020.• This report covers Baxter’s global operations, including 
subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. Environmental, 
health and safety data include joint ventures where we 
have a controlling interest. 
• The performance data in this report do not include 
parts of Baxter that became Baxalta on July 1, 2015, 
unless stated otherwise. 
• All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless 
stated otherwise. 
• Significant restatements of data compared with prior 
years are noted in the sections where they appear. 
• This report is intended for global use. Please consult 
the appropriate country-specific Baxter website for 
information regarding activities in that country. 
• Some statements in this report about products or 
procedures may differ from the licensed indications in 
specific countries. Therefore, always consult the country-
specific summary of product characteristics, package 
leaflets or instructions for use. For more information, 
please contact a local Baxter representative. 
Recognition 
Baxter is proud to be recognized by numerous 
organizations and publications globally. These examples 
of our recent accomplishments highlight Baxter as an 
employer of choice, as a company that works to nurture 
an inclusive and diverse workplace, and as a socially  
and environmentally responsible business.RECOGNITION HIGHLIGHTS  (AS OF JUNE 2020 )
• A List  
CDP Climate Change
• 100 Best Corporate Citizens  
Corporate Responsibility Magazine
• Top 10 Percent Inclusion Index Company  
Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index
• America's Best Employers for Diversity  
Forbes
• America's Best Employers for Women  
Forbes
• FTSE4Good Index Series
• Corporate Equality Index  
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality  
Human Rights Campaign
• America's Most Just Companies Top 100  
JUST Capital
• Top 100 U.S. Companies Supporting Healthy 
Communities and Families  
JUST Capital
• Member of Dow Jones Sustainability Indices  
in Collaboration with RobecoSAM 
• Top 70 Companies for Executive Women  
National Association for Female Executives
• America's Most Responsible Companies  
Newsweek
• Sustainability Yearbook  
S&P Global and RobecoSAM
• Military Friendly Employer  
Victory Media
• 100 Best Companies  
Working Mother
• Best Companies for Dads  
Working Mother42
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
Climate changeReducing energy consumption and expanding use of renewable energy in Baxter’s operations and reducing greenhouse  
gas emissions across our value chain; incorporating climate change strategy, including adaptation and resilience planning, 
into relevant business decisions. Learn more .
Community support and 
volunteerismSupporting communities in need where Baxter has a presence, with partnerships aimed at addressing economic,  
environmental and social needs, including through financial contributions and employee volunteerism. Learn more .
Diversity and inclusionMaintaining an inclusive, nondiscriminatory hiring process and culture; providing employees equal pay for equal work 
regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation or disability; welcoming, leveraging and appreciating the uniqueness of every 
Baxter employee; and supporting supplier diversity. Learn more .
Employee attraction, 
development and retentionAttracting, engaging and retaining top talent by providing employees career and personal training and development 
opportunities, and designing succession plans to ensure there are qualified Baxter candidates for critical positions;  
upholding labor rights and ensuring that labor concerns can be reported. Learn more .
Ethics and complianceProviding an effective corporate governance structure, business processes, marketing standards, and reporting  
mechanisms, and fostering an open culture that demonstrates the highest ethics and anticorruption standards. Learn more .
Health, safety and  
well-beingProviding employees with a zero-harm workplace, an environment that encourages healthy choices, and resources to  
maintain and improve their health and safety and that of their families. Learn more .
Healthcare access and 
affordabilityImproving access to, and affordability of, Baxter products and services for populations in need through product innovation,  
public health initiatives, public policy efforts, business model innovation and strategic giving, which includes product  
donations and grants from the Baxter International Foundation. Learn more .
Human rights Ensuring workers across Baxter’s value chain are treated in accordance with international standards of human rights. Learn more .
Innovation Investing in innovation that solves for unmet needs and improves patient outcomes and standards of care. Learn more .
Patient safety and qualityHelping to ensure quality and patient safety across the product life cycle through leading practices in design,  
materials use, manufacturing, communications, surveillance and reporting. Learn more .
Privacy and data protectionProtecting personal information from unauthorized or inappropriate collection, processing and disclosure, and protecting 
information resources from threats, whether internal or external, deliberate or accidental. Learn more .
Product sustainabilityIncorporating and managing sustainability across the product life cycle (R&D and design, materials use including chemicals  
of concern, manufacturing, product transport, packaging, product use and end-of-life), and communicating sustainable  
product attributes to customers. Learn more .
Supply chain sustainability Working with suppliers to improve their own sustainability programs and performance, as well as Baxter’s. Learn more .
WasteMinimizing disposal of manufacturing waste from Baxter’s operations, first through source reduction and reuse and then 
through recycling and energy recovery. Learn more .
Water useReducing water use in Baxter’s operations, increasing reuse, managing water discharge quality and protecting local water 
sources, especially in water-scarce areas. Learn more .ISSUE DESCRIPTION Upstream DownstreamBaxter 
OperationsIMPACT WITHIN VALUE CHAINAPPENDIX :   2018 Materiality Assessment Findings1
For more information about the process we undertook and the key findings of our 2018 assessment, see page 6 of our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report .43
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   Baxter Data Summary
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the Employee Health and Safety, Operations, and Responsible Procurement and Logistics content in this section.
 
 
Financial Performance1
Net Sales ($ millions)   $10,584  $11,099 $11,362
U.S. Net Sales ($ millions)   $4,510 $4,723 $4,826 
International Net Sales ($ millions)   $6,074 $6,376 $6,536
Net Income ($ millions)   $602 $1,546 $1,001 
Stock Price ($ at year end)   $64.64 $65.82 $83.62
Dividend ($ per share)   $0.61 $0.73 $0.85
Research and Development ($ millions)   $615 $654 $595
Workplace Culture 
Global Workforce by Job Level2 (as a % of total)  
 Executive   0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
 Management   11.6% 11.1% 11.0%
 Professional   25.3% 24.8% 25.6% 
 Technical/Clerical   62.8% 63.8% 63.1%
Global Workforce by Gender (as a % of total)  
 Women   49.4% 48.0% 47.8% 
 Men   50.6% 52.0% 52.2%
Global Workforce by Region (as a % of total)  
 Americas3   49.6% 49.8% 48.2% 
 /uniFEFFEurope, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)   28.6% 26.6% 27.2% 
 /uniFEFFAsia Pacific   21.8% 23.6% 24.6%
Representation of Women by Region (as a % of total)     
 Americas3   49.8% 49.9% 49.6% 
 EMEA   47.4% 48.2% 47.2% 
/uniFEFF Asia Pacific   51.2% 43.7% 44.9%
Representation of Women by Job Level2 (as a % of total)     
 Executive   28.9% 33.3% 31.9%
 Management   40.1% 40.0% 39.7%
 Professional   49.2% 48.7% 47.3% 
 Technical/Clerical   /uniFEFF51.4% 49.1% 49.5%
Ethnic Minority Representation by Job Level2, 4 (as a % of total, U.S. only)  37.5% 38.5% 38.5%
 Executive   19.0% 19.3% 18.4%
 Management   26.3% 26.4% 26.5%
 Professional   30.4% 30.4% 30.0%  
 Technical/Clerical   43.6% 45.0% 45.3%
Employee Health and Safety5  
Recordable Incident Rate6   0.45 0.41 0.39
 North America   0.91 0.72 0.82
 Latin America   0.18 0.26 0.24  
 EMEA   0.38 0.44 0.32
 Asia Pacific   0.04 0.08 0.07
Cases with Days Lost Rate7   0.102 0.084 0.086
 North America   0.205 0.112 0.165
 Latin America   0.270 0.043 0.000
 EMEA   0.103 0.168 0.148
 Asia Pacific   0.000 0.000 0.008
 
 
Employee Health and Safety5 (continued)
Days Lost Rate8   3.62 2.88 2.14
 North America   7.62 6.54 5.88
 Latin America   1.48 1.02 0.00
 EMEA   2.70 2.36 1.47
 Asia Pacific   0.00 0.00 0.01
Restricted Days Rate9   8.69 6.20 7.83
 North America    20.85 15.23 21.16 
 Latin America   0.42 0.56 0.55
 EMEA   4.75 4.05 3.79
 Asia Pacific   1.23 1.00 1.43
Days Away (Lost), Restricted or Transferred Rate (DART)   12.31 9.08 9.97
Employee/Contractor Major Incidents (total number)   7/0 6/1 5/1
Employee/Contractor Fatalities (total number)   0/0 1/1 0/0
Health and Safety Notices of Violation Settled   2 4 3
Health and Safety Fines Paid (in dollars)   /uniFEFF$8,500  $7,130 $9,382
Sources of Recordable Injury and Serious Incidents (as a % of total)  
 Ergonomic   22% 22% 24%
 Involving the Body (nonergonomic)   7% 6% 6% 
 Punctures   6% 12% 13%
 Struck by Object   20% 16% 15%
 Slips, Trips and Falls    19% 24% 22% 
 Caught In, On or Between   12% 13% 13% 
 Forklifts and Other Vehicles   3% 4% 3% 
 Other   11% 4% 4%
Operations10
Baxter Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions11 (metric tons)   24 27 14
 Cumene    3 3 4
 EtO    1 3 2 
 Methylene Chloride   2 3 1
 Methanol    0 0 0 
 DEHP   18 18 7
 Other   0 0 0
Kg Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   2 2 1
NOx and SOx Emissions12 (metric tons)   585 543 551
 NOx   415 412  425
 SOx    170 131  126
Kg NOx and SOx Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   55 49  48
Energy Usage from Baxter Operations13 (trillions of joules)   9,210  9,481 9,575
 North America   3,858  4,036 4,238
 Latin America   954  996 969
 EMEA   2,815  2,830 2,750
 Asia Pacific    1,583  1,619 1,618
Billions of Joules per Million Dollars of Sales   870 854 843
Renewable Energy Usage (trillions of joules)   2,738  2,806 2,811
Facility Usage of Renewable Energy (as a % of total energy use)   /uniFEFF30% 30% 29%SECTION AND INDICATOR  2017 2018 2019 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2017 2018 201944
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   Baxter Data Summary  (continued)
 
 
Employee Health and Safety5 (continued)
Days Lost Rate8   3.62 2.88 2.14
 North America   7.62 6.54 5.88
 Latin America   1.48 1.02 0.00
 EMEA   2.70 2.36 1.47
 Asia Pacific   0.00 0.00 0.01
Restricted Days Rate9   8.69 6.20 7.83
 North America   20.85 15.23 21.16 
 Latin America   0.42 0.56 0.55
 EMEA   4.75 4.05 3.79
 Asia Pacific   1.23 1.00 1.43
Days Away (Lost), Restricted or Transferred Rate (DART)   12.31 9.08 9.97
Employee/Contractor Major Incidents (total number)   7/0 6/1 5/1
Employee/Contractor Fatalities (total number)   0/0 1/1 0/0
Health and Safety Notices of Violation Settled   2 4 3
Health and Safety Fines Paid (in dollars)   /uniFEFF$8,500  $7,130 $9,382
Sources of Recordable Injury and Serious Incidents (as a % of total)  
 Ergonomic   22% 22% 24%
 Involving the Body (nonergonomic)   7% 6% 6% 
 Punctures   6% 12% 13%
 Struck by Object   20% 16% 15%
 Slips, Trips and Falls   19% 24% 22% 
 Caught In, On or Between   12% 13% 13% 
 Forklifts and Other Vehicles   3% 4% 3% 
 Other   11% 4% 4%
Operations10
Baxter Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions11 (metric tons)   24 27 14
 Cumene    3 3 4
 EtO   1 3 2 
 Methylene Chloride   2 3 1
 Methanol   0 0 0 
 DEHP   18 18 7
 Other   0 0 0
Kg Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   2 2 1
NOx and SOx Emissions12 (metric tons)   585 543 551
 NOx   415 412  425
 SOx    170 131  126
Kg NOx and SOx Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   55 49  48
Energy Usage from Baxter Operations13 (trillions of joules)   9,210  9,481 9,575
 North America   3,858  4,036 4,238
 Latin America   954  996 969
 EMEA   2,815  2,830 2,750
 Asia Pacific   1,583  1,619 1,618
Billions of Joules per Million Dollars of Sales   870 854 843
Renewable Energy Usage (trillions of joules)   2,738  2,806 2,811
Facility Usage of Renewable Energy (as a % of total energy use)   /uniFEFF30% 30% 29%
 
 
Operations10 (continued)
Lean Energy Program Performance14 (% of program criteria implemented
across all manufacturing facilities, at year-end)
 Prerequisite   97% 99% 91% 
 Bronze   92% 96% 85% 
 Silver   80% 85% 74%
 Gold   /uniFEFF64% 66% 56%
Baxter's Global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Footprint 
(Scope 1, 2, and 3)15 (metric tons CO2e). See Baxter Value Chain   
Energy Usage and GHG Emissions for detail.    4,771,000 5,206,000 4,888,000
GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations (metric tons CO2e)15   603,000 613,000 619,000 
 North America   250,000 255,000 264,000
 Latin America   67,000 70,000 67,000
 EMEA   126,000 124,000 121,000
 Asia Pacific   160,000 164,000 166,000
GHG Emissions from Operations per Million Dollars of Sales15  
(metric tons CO2e)   57 55 54
Total Waste16 (metric tons)   71,000  71,300 71,900
 North America   26,700  27,700 28,500
 Latin America   8,100  8,200 8,000
 EMEA   28,400  27,300 25,800
 Asia Pacific   7,800  8,100 9,600
Metric Tons of Total Waste per Million Dollars of Sales   6.70 6.42 6.33
Nonhazardous Waste17 (metric tons)   62,900 62,800 62,800
 North America   25,100  25,700 26,100
 Latin America   6,800  6,900 6,600
 EMEA   23,400 22,400 20,800 
 Asia Pacific   7,600  7,800 9,300
Metric Tons of Nonhazardous Waste per Million Dollars of Sales   5.93 5.66 5.52
Regulated Waste18 (metric tons)   8,100 8,500 9,100 
 North America   1,600 2,000 2,400
 Latin America   1,300 1,300 1,400
 EMEA   5,000 4,900 5,000
 Asia Pacific   /uniFEFF200 300 300
Metric Tons of Regulated Waste per Million Dollars of Sales   0.77 0.76 0.80
Waste Management at Baxter (% of total)  
 Recycled (on-site or off-site)   60.3% 61.4% 56.8% 
 Incinerated with Energy Recovery   15.3% 18.8% 18.1% 
 Incinerated   4.8% 5.1% 5.1%
 Sent to Landfill   15.4% 12.3% 17.0%
 Other Disposal   /uniFEFF4.2% 2.4% 3.0%
Water Usage (thousand cubic meters)   13,776 14,258 14,471
 North America   5,046  5,071 5,204
 Latin America   1,672  1,793 1,734
 EMEA   /uniFEFF4,094  4,278 4,387
 Asia Pacific   2,964  3,116 3,146
Thousand Cubic Meters Water Usage per Million Dollars of Sales   1.30 1.28 1.27
Water Usage, by Availability19 (thousand cubic meters)   13,052 13,702 13,907 
 Extreme-Scarcity Water Resources   644  846 818
 Scarce Water Resources   620  771 783 
 Stressed Water Resources   3,652  3,599 3,659 
 Sufficient Water Resources   3,360  3,537 3,543
 Abundant Water Resources   4,776  4,949 5,104
 
 
Operations10 (continued)
Wastewater Flow20 (total direct discharge, thousand cubic meters)    3,395  3,414 2,290 
 BOD5 (metric tons)   29 24 30  
 BOD5 (mg/L)   9 7 13 
 COD (metric tons)   78 61 80
 COD (mg/L)    23 18 35 
 TSS (metric tons)   31 24 42
 TSS (mg/L)   9 7 19
Environmental Compliance  
 Environmental Notices of Violation   5 11 22 
 Environmental Fines Paid21 (in dollars)   $4,727  $79,500 $0
Responsible Procurement and Logistics
Spend with Suppliers22 (United States and Puerto Rico)   
(approximate, dollars in billions)    $2.1 $2.8 $2.9
Supplier Diversity23 (dollars in millions)
 Spend with Small Businesses   $347 $378 $167 
 Spend with Minority-Owned Businesses   $40 $94 $102 
 Spend with Women-Owned Businesses   $84 $80 $96
 Spend with Veteran-Owned Businesses   $5 $13 $4
Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Mode (metric tons CO2e)  453,300 516,700 472,500  
 Air   104,500 80,400 53,100   
 Ocean    63,200 62,300 51,900 
 Rail   14,500 21,100 54,300
 Road    271,200 352,800 313,200
Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Region (metric tons CO2e)  453,300 516,700 472,500 
 North America    176,100 197,000 197,100
 Latin America    53,900 50,800 64,200
 EMEA    175,700 185,400 164,100
 Asia Pacific    47,600 83,400 47,100
Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving (dollars in millions)
Total Charitable Giving   $20.76 $17.62 $28.41
Baxter Product Donations to Aid Organizations24
 Products/Patient Assistance Programs   $8.83 $5.60 $16.81
Business and Facility Cash Donations   $7.84 $5.36 $4.77
 Within the United States    $3.35 $1.55 $1.21
 Outside the United States   $4.49 $3.81 $3.56
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions   $4.09 $6.66 $6.83
 Within the United States (including Puerto Rico)   $3.33 $6.08 $6.06
  Grants25   $1.72 $4.64 $4.77
  Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers   $1.03 $0.83 $0.81
  Scholarships   $0.26 $0.20 $0.15
  Prize Programs   $0.32 $0.41 $0.33
 Outside the United States   $0.76 $0.58 $0.77
  Grants   $0.64 $0.43 $0.66
  Scholarships   $0.12 $0.15 $0.11
Political Contributions
See Baxter ’s 2019 Political Contributions Report for detailed data.  SECTION AND INDICATOR  2017 2018 2019 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2017 2018 201945
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
  Units 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019
Baxter Operations3
Scope 1 - Stationary Sources (facilities)
Natural Gas  Million Cubic Meters 105 111 113 4,030 4,263 4,318 $32.5  $32.8 $34.5 200 214 218
Fuel Oil Million Liters 9 6 5 365 248 208 $4.1  $3.5 $3.1 26 17 15
Propane and LPG Million Kilograms 6 7 7 301 341 354 $4.5  $5.7 $5.1 19 21 22
Biomass4 Million Kilograms 136 135 144 950 940 986 $3.0  $3.2 $4.4 2 2 2
Subtotal  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a 5,646 5,792 5,866 $44.1 $45.2 $47.1 247 254 255
Scope 1 - Mobile Sources (Baxter-operated vehicles)5
Aviation Fuel Million Liters 0.4 0.4 0.3 16 13 11 $0.2  $0.2 $0.2 1 1 1
Gasoline  Million Liters 5.4 5.2 5.0 197 189 182 $6.0  $6.0 $5.7 12 12 12
Diesel Fuel   Million Liters 12.9 12.3 12.9 494 475 493 $9.8  $13.0 $13.2 35 33 35
Subtotal Million Liters  18.7 17.9 18.2 707 677 686 $16.0  $19.2 $19.1 48 46 47
Refrigerants6
Refrigerant Losses (facilities) Metric Tons /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 9 9 8
Scope 1 Total    /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 302 309 310
Scope 2 - Electricity and Purchased Steam    
Electricity (purchased)7 Million Kilowatt-Hours 962 988 991 3,482 3,578 3,583 $104.3 $107.6 $113.5 261 264 264
Electricity (on-site renewable) Million  Kilowatt-Hours 4 4 3 13 13 11 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Purchased Steam Million Kilograms 36 48 54 83 113 124 $0.4  $0.4 $0.4 29 30 30
Scope 2 Total (market-based)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 301 304 308
Scope 2 Total (location-based)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 430 430 431
Baxter Operations Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a 9,93 1 10,17 3 10,27 0 $164. 8  $172.4 $180. 1 603 613 618
Scope 3 Emissions  
Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1)8  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 750 787 805
Capital Goods (Category 2)9  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 77 82 87
Fuel and Energy-related Activities (Category 3)10  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 128 131 132
Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 4)11  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 453 517 472
Waste Generated in Operations (Category 5)12  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 14 14 16
Business Travel (Category 6)13  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 52 54 51
Employee Commuting (Category 7)14  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 30 29 29
Upstream Leased Assets (Category 8)15  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Downstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 9)16  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 122 132 131
Processing of Sold Products (Category 10)17  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 16 17 16
Use of Sold Products (Category 11)18  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 2,369 2,658 2,366
End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products (Category 12)18  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 157 171 165
Downstream Leased Assets (Category 13)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Franchises (Category 14)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Investments (Category 15)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 0
Scope 3 Emissions Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 4,168 4,593 4,270
Total  GHG E missions19 /uniFEFF n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 4,771 5,206 4,888ENERGY USAGE JOULES
(TRILLIONS)ENERGY COSTS
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENTS1,2
(THOUSAND METRIC TONS)46
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and Green Building Certifications1
Apex Companies LLC has provided assurance on the content in this section.
 
 
North America
Canada, Ontario Alliston X X 
Canada, Ontario Mississauga    Canada LEED Silver (2014) 
United States, Alabama Opelika X X
United States, Arkansas Mountain Home/Midway  X X X 
United States, California Hayward X X 
United States, California Irvine X  
United States, Illinois Round Lake , Manufacturing  X  X 
United States, Illinois Round Lake, R&D    LEED Silver (2013)2
United States, Indiana Bloomington X X
United States, Minnesota St. Paul X 
United States, Mississippi Cleveland X X X
United States, New York Medina X 
United States, North Carolina Marion (North Cove) X X
Latin America    
Brazil São Paulo X X X 
Colombia Cali X X X
Dominican Republic Haina X    
Costa Rica Cartago X X X 
Mexico Atlacomulco X X 
Mexico Cuernavaca X X 
Puerto Rico Aibonito X X
Puerto Rico Guayama X  
Puerto Rico Jayuya X
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Belgium Lessines X X X
Belgium Lessines BDCE X X X
France Jonage-Lyon X   BREEAM Good (2011)
France Meyzieu X  X  
Germany Bielefeld X X X
Germany Halle Westfalen X X X
Germany Hechingen X X X
Greece Athens (Herakleio) X
Ireland Castlebar X X X
Ireland Swinford X X Region/Country/ City ISO OHSAS ISO Green Building
State/Province  14001 18001 50001 CertificationRegion/Country/ City ISO OHSAS ISO Green Building
State/Province  14001 18001 50001 Certification
Europe, Middle East and Africa (continued)
Ireland Dublin/Blackrock X
Ireland Dublin/Sandyford X  
Italy Grosotto X X X 
Italy Medolla X X  
Italy Rome X X  Italia LEED Gold (2015 )
Italy Sesto Fiorentino X X 
Italy Sondalo X X X
Malta Marsa X X X 
Portugal Sintra X X
Spain Sabiñánigo X X X
Spain Valencia X X
Sweden Lund X  
Sweden Rosersberg    EU GreenBuilding (2011)
Switzerland Zurich    Minergie Plus (2010)
Tunisia Oued Ellil X X 
United Kingdom Elstree X  
United Kingdom Croydon  X  
United Kingdom Northwood X X  
United Kingdom Northampton X X 
United Kingdom Stockport X X 
United Kingdom Oxford X X 
United Kingdom Thetford X X
Asia Pacific
Australia Toongabbie X X X
China Guangzhou X X
China Shanghai X X
China Suzhou X X
China Tianjin X X
India Ahmedabad Office    LEED Gold (2018)
Japan Miyazaki X
New Zealand Auckland X X
Philippines Canlubang X X
Singapore Woodlands X X X 
Thailand Amata X47
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   Independent Assurance Statement
To: The Stakeholders of Baxter International Inc.
Introduction and Objectives of Work
Baxter International Inc. (Baxter) engaged Apex  
Companies LLC (Apex) to provide assurance of selected 
sections of Baxter’s 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report. This Assurance 
Statement applies to the Subject Matter included within the scope of  
work described below.
This information and its presentation in Baxter’s 2019 Corporate 
Responsibility Report (“the Report”) are the sole responsibility of the 
management of Baxter. Apex was not involved in the drafting of the Report. 
Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on the  
accuracy of the Subject Matter. Baxter’s 2019 Corporate Responsibility  
Report marks the 11th year for which we have provided assurance.
Scope of Work
The scope of our work was reasonable-level assurance of the following 
information included within the Report for the period January 1, 2019,  
to December 31, 2019 (the “Subject Matter”).
Data and information included in the following sections of the Report:
• Product Innovation (except the Patient Safety and Quality subsection)
• Employee Health and Safety
• Operations
 −Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions verification is documented  
under a separate verification declaration
• Serving Our Communities—Baxter World Environment Week subsection
Related material in the Report Appendix, including:
• Baxter Data Summary—Employee Health and Safety and  
Operations subsections
• Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
• Facilities with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and Green  
Building Certifications
The scope of work also included limited-level assurance of the  
following Subject Matter:
Data and information included in the following section of the Report:
• Responsible Procurement and Logistics
Related material in the Report Appendix:
• Baxter Data Summary—Responsible Procurement and  
Logistics subsection
Our assurance does not extend to any other information included  
in the Report.
Reporting Boundaries
The following are the boundaries Baxter used for reporting  
sustainability data:
• Operational control
• Worldwide
Reporting Criteria
The Subject Matter needs to be read and understood together with  
Baxter’s internal reporting requirements for facility environmental,  
health, safety and sustainability performance, as well as information 
described in the text, appendix, data tables and notes of the Report.
Limitations and Exclusions
Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information 
relating to:
• Activities outside the defined assurance period, which is the  
2019 calendar year• Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or  
future intention) by Baxter and statements of future commitment
• Any financial data previously audited by an external third party
• Data and information included in sections of the Report not listed 
in the scope of work above
This assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected sample  
of sustainability data and the associated limitations that this entails. 
This independent statement should not be relied upon to detect all 
errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist.
Responsibilities
The preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the Report 
are the sole responsibility of the management of Baxter. Apex was  
not involved in the drafting of the Report or of the Reporting Criteria. 
Our responsibilities were to:
• Provide independent assurance about whether the Subject Matter  
has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria
• Form an independent conclusion based on the assurance 
procedures performed and evidence obtained
• Report our conclusions to the stakeholders of Baxter
Assessment Standards
We performed our work in accordance with Apex’s standard  
procedures and guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability 
Reports and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance 
reports dated on or after Dec. 15, 2015), issued by the International 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A materiality threshold  
of ±5% was set for the assurance process.
The work was planned and carried out to provide reasonable, rather 
than absolute, assurance of the Subject Matter except for the 
Responsible Procurement and Logistics section of the Report, which 
was carried out to provide limited assurance. We believe that our  
work provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.
Summary of Work Performed
As part of our independent verification, our work included:
• Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the 
Subject Matter
• Conducting interviews with relevant Baxter personnel who are 
responsible for collecting and reporting performance data and 
other Subject Matter
• Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Baxter
• Reviewing Baxter’s systems for quantitative data aggregation and 
analysis during remote meetings with personnel from Baxter’s 
offices in Round Lake and Deerfield, Illinois
• Assessing assumptions made, and the data scope and reporting 
boundaries. Auditing consolidated performance data, including 
review of a sample of data-to-source documentation
• Auditing a selection of the Subject Matter to the corresponding 
source documentation
• Auditing performance data during visits to operating sites located 
in: Aibonito, Puerto Rico; Alliston, Ontario, Canada; Cali, Colombia; 
Marsa, Malta; Medolla, Italy; and Qiaoguang, China
• Assessing the disclosure and presentation of the Subject Matter 
with emphasis on principles of accuracy, accessibility, balance, 
clarity, comparability, reliability and timeliness and to ensure 
consistency with the Reporting CriteriaConclusion
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above,  
it is our opinion that the Subject Matter within the Product Innovation 
(except the Patient Safety and Quality subsection), Employee Health 
and Safety, Operations, and Serving Our Communities—Baxter World 
Environment Week sections of the Report, and related material in  
the Report Appendix:
• Is presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria and is,  
in all material respects, fairly stated
• Is presented in a clear, understandable and accessible manner
• Allows readers to form a balanced opinion of Baxter’s activities 
and performance during calendar year 2019
Also, on the basis of our methodology and the activities described above:
• Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the data and 
information in the Responsible Procurement and Logistics  
section of the Report are inaccurate or that the information is  
not fairly stated.
• It is also our opinion that Baxter has established appropriate 
systems for the collection, aggregation, analysis and review of  
the Subject Matter.
Additional Commentary
During the assurance process, Apex observed that Baxter continues 
to improve its overall data collection and reporting processes at the 
site and corporate level. Opportunities for improving facility-level data 
collection, reporting and procedural documentation at some facilities 
were noted.
We recommend that Baxter corporate personnel continue to support 
individual facility personnel with collection and consolidation of site-
specific metrics that are included in reporting.
Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence
Apex is an independent professional services company that  
specializes in health, safety, social and environmental management 
services, including assurance, with more than 30 years history in 
providing these services.
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to 
maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day 
business activities.
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with 
Baxter International Inc., or its directors or managers, beyond that 
required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification 
independently, and there has been no conflict of interest.
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting  
assurance on health, safety, social, environmental and ethical 
information, systems and processes. The team has more than  
20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent 
understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the assurance  
of sustainability-related assertions.
JOHN A. ROHDE  
Apex Companies LLC   |   Lakewood, COTREVOR DONAGHU  
Apex Companies LLC   |   Pleasant Hill, CA
May 27, 202048
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
This index references information related to disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016. The reported information may meet in part or in full the requirements of each GRI disclosure listed.
Disclosure Disclosure
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Company Profile
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Baxter 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-3 Location of headquarters Baxter's corporate headquarters is in  
Deerfield, Illinois.
102-4 Location of operations Baxter 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-5 Ownership and legal form Baxter International Inc. (BAX) is a publicly  
traded company listed on the New York  
Stock Exchange.
102-6 Markets served Baxter 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization Operations ; Baxter 2019 Annual Report   
on Form 10-K
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Baxter Data Summary
102-9 Supply chain Responsible Procurement and Logistics ; 
Baxter Data Summary
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and  
its supply chainBaxter 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Patient Safety and Quality ; Sustainable Design ; 
Materials Use
102-12 External initiatives Examples are included throughout this report.
102-13 Membership of associations We engage with external organizations to help 
drive progress on a broad range of corporate 
responsibility issues. Examples include Advanced 
Medical Technology Association, the Ceres 
Company Network, the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) Community, Healthcare Plastics Recycling 
Council, MedTech Europe, National Minority 
Supplier Development Council, Partnership for 
Quality Medical Donations, Pharmaceutical Supply 
Chain Initiative, Sustainable Healthcare Coalition,  
Vinyl Council of Australia and others.
Strategy 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker From the Chairman and CEO
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms  
of behaviorProtecting Human Rights ; Ethics and Compliance ; 
Responsible Procurement
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns  
about ethicsEthics and Compliance HelplineGRI 102: General Disclosures 2016  (continued)
Governance  
102-18 Governance structure Our Governance
102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Responsibility
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental and social topicsCorporate Responsibility
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body  
and its committeesOur Governance
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Our Governance
Organizational Profile
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest  
governance bodyCorporate Governance Guidelines
102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Guidelines
102-31 Review of economic, environmental and  
social topicsCorporate Responsibility
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Baxter 2020 Proxy Statement
102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Guidelines ; 
Baxter 2020 Proxy Statement
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance Guidelines
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement ; Baxter 2020   
Proxy Statement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement ; Baxter 2020   
Proxy Statement
Reporting Practice 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statementsBaxter 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality
102-47 List of material topics Materiality
102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2019
102-51 Date of most recent report June 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle Yearly
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report corporate_responsibility_report @baxter.com
102-55 GRI content index This section
102-56 External assurance Assurance and Verification2019 Reporting 2019 Reporting49
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  (continued)
Disclosure Disclosure
GRI 200 Economic Standard Series
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Management approach Innovation That Expands Access to Care ;  
Serving Our Communities ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings
201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributedServing Our Communities ; Baxter Data Summary ; 
Baxter 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeBaxter CDP submission
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
Management approach Innovation That Expands Access to Care ;  
Serving Our Communities ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings
203-1 Infrastructure investments and  
services supportedInnovation That Expands Access to Care ;  
Serving Our Communities
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Innovation That Expands Access to Care ;  
Serving Our Communities
GRI 205: Anticorruption 2016
Management approach Ethics and Compliance ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related  
to corruptionEthics and Compliance
205-2 Communication and training about  
anticorruption policies and proceduresEthics and Compliance
GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series
GRI 301: Materials 2016
Management approach Sustainable Design ; Materials Use ;  
Product End-of-Life ; 2018 Materiality   
Assessment Findings
301-3 Reclaimed products and their  
packaging materialsProduct End-of-Life
GRI 302: Energy 2016
Management approach Operations ; Energy ; 2018 Materiality   
Assessment Findings
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy ; Baxter Data Summary ; Baxter Value   
Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
302-3 Energy intensity Energy ; Baxter Data Summary
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption EnergyGRI 300 Environmental Standards Series  (continued)
GRI 303: Water 2016
Management approach Operations ; Water and Wastewater ;  
2018 Materiality Assessment Findings
303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water and Wastewater ; Baxter Data Summary
303-2 Water sources significantly affected by  
withdrawal of waterWater and Wastewater ; Baxter Data Summary
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Management approach Operations ; GHG Emissions Across the Value   
Chain ; GHG Emissions from Operations ; 
2018 Materiality Assessment Findings
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain ; GHG  
Emissions from Operations ; Baxter Data Summary ; 
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain ; GHG  
Emissions from Operations ; Baxter Data Summary ; 
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  and GHG Emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain ;  
Baxter Data Summary ; Baxter Value Chain Energy  
Usage and GHG Emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG Emissions from Operations ; Baxter Data Summary
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG Emissions from Operations
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX)  
and other significant air emissionsBaxter Data Summary
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Management approach Operations ; Waste ; 2018 Materiality   
Assessment Findings
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Baxter Data Summary
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste ; Baxter Data Summary
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016
Management approach Operations
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulationsBaxter Data Summary
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
Management approach Managing Procurement Risks ; Supplier   
Corporate Responsibility Survey ; Supplier Audits ;  
2018 Materiality Assessment Findings  
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the  
supply chain and actions takenSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  
Green Logistics ; Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and GHG Emissions2019 Reporting 2019 Reporting50
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
APPENDIX :   Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  (continued)
Disclosure Disclosure 2019 Reporting 2019 Reporting
GRI 400 Social Standards Series
GRI 401: Employment 2016
Management approach Workplace Culture ; 2018 Materiality   
Assessment Findings
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Voluntary employee turnover was 10.7% in 2019.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees  
that are not provided to temporary or  
part-time employeesCompensation and Benefits   
All benefits are generally provided to full-time  
and part-time employees.
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding  
operational changesMinimum notice period varies by country. The 
length of the notice period is dependent on the  
type of change being made. Baxter is committed  
to providing appropriate notice and follows all 
relevant consultation and notice requirements.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016
Management approach Employee Health and Safety ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and 
number of work-related fatalitiesEmployee Health and Safety ; Baxter  Data Summary
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Management approach Employee Engagement ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings
404-1 Average hours of training per year  
per employeeEmployee Engagement
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills  
and transition assistance programsEmployee Engagement
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Management approach Global Inclusion and Diversity ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Baxter Data Summary ; Our Leadership
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
Management approach Responsible Procurement ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings ; Baxter Global Human Rights  
Policy ; Baxter Code of Conduct ; Baxter Supplier  
Quality Standard ; Ethics and Compliance Standards  
for Baxter Suppliers
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk  
for incidents of child laborSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  
Supplier AuditsGRI 400 Social Standards Series  (continued)
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
Management approach Responsible Procurement ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings ; Baxter Global Human  
Rights Policy ; Baxter Code of Conduct ; Baxter  
Supplier Quality Standard ; Ethics and Compliance  
Standards for Baxter Suppliers ; Baxter California  
Transparency in Supply Chains Act Position  
Statement ; Baxter UK Modern Slavery Statement ; 
Baxter Conflict Minerals Position Statement
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk  
for incidents of forced or compulsory laborSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  
Supplier Audits
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
Management approach Managing Procurement Risks ; Supplier   
Corporate Responsibility Survey ; Supplier Audits ;  
2018 Materiality Assessment Findings
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 
and actions takenSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  
Supplier Audits
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
Management approach Public Policy
415-1 Political contributions Baxter 2019 Political Contributions Report
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
Management approach Patient Safety and Quality ; Sustainable Design ; 
Materials Use ; 2018 Materiality Assessment Findings
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts  
of product and service categoriesPatient Safety and Quality ; Sustainable Design
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning  
the health and safety impacts of products  
and servicesBaxter 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
Management approach Privacy and Data Protection ; 2018 Materiality  
Assessment Findings
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016
Management approach Ethics and Compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in  
the social and economic areaBaxter 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K51
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
INTRODUCTION
1 As of December 31, 2019.
2 Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa. The global average database includes more than 400 companies and more than 19 million responses.
3 As used in this report, “materiality” or “material” refers to environmental, social and economic issues that are deemed to be of significant 
importance to our stakeholders and to the company. These “material” issues inform our corporate responsibility strategy, priorities and goals, 
and reporting, and are not the same as “material” issues for the purposes of the company's financial and SEC reporting in the United States.
2020 PRIORITIES AND GOALS
1 This represents the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packaging 
innovation was implemented. 
2 Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa. The global average database includes more than 400 companies and more than 19 million 
responses. Top quartile is a subset of the global average.
3 In a comparison of 32 global companies across all industries, 24 reported global safety data to ORC HSE and 8 reported data on their 
public websites.
4 A single waste stream at a facility in Europe has government-mandated requirements. This waste stream is excluded from the total.
5 To more closely reflect production efficiency and support consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends, we exclude 
certain nonroutine, non-production-related waste streams from our total waste performance data and progress against our 2020 
waste goal. These waste streams are construction and demolition debris, remediation waste and wastewater treatment sludge.
6 Includes spending with women-owned businesses and minority-owned businesses. Spending with suppliers that certify for more than one 
classification is counted only once. United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).
PRODUCT INNOVATION
1 This includes Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia, Health Canada in Canada, Health Products Regulatory Authority in 
Ireland, Agencia Española de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios in Spain, Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency 
in the United Kingdom, and Food and Drug Administration in the United States, among others.
2 This represents the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packaging 
innovation was implemented.
3 Floseal  Hemostatic Matrix Instructions for Use. Hayward, CA: Baxter Healthcare Corporation.
WORKPLACE CULTURE
1 As of December 31, 2019.
2 Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa. The global average database includes more than 400 companies and more than 19 million 
responses. Top quartile is a subset of the global average.
3 Managers are eligible to receive the scorecard if they have five or more direct reports and at least five of their direct reports 
responded to the survey. The October survey was administered via email. Employees without a Baxter email address, such as those in 
manufacturing, did not participate in the October survey.
4 These data do not represent all employee training and development but do capture a large portion of training for most employees.
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
1 Data are from Aon Hewitt and IBM Kenexa. The global average database includes more than 400 companies and more than 19 million 
responses. Top quartile is a subset of the global average.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY
1 See Baxter Data Summary endnotes 6–9 for definitions of the injury and illness metrics used in this section.
2 In a comparison of 32 global companies across all industries, 24 reported global safety data to ORC HSE and 8 reported data on their 
public websites.
3 Each year, profiles untouched for the previous three years are removed from the active database.
OPERATIONS
1 The environmental data included in this report are based on 120 reporting locations, of which 52 are manufacturing, 19 are 
warehouse, and 49 are pharmacies, administrative, clerical or other. Several of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that 
report as a single entity. For example, in 2019, Baxter’s 46 renal therapy sites in Colombia reported as a single entity. The reporting 
scope excludes certain leased facilities for which environmental performance data are not available or are not material to Baxter’s 
overall environmental performance. The health and safety data included in this report are based on 172 reporting locations. The 
Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) information reported covers 100% of Baxter’s operations unless noted 
otherwise. EHS&S data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant closings as well as to incorporate any corrections 
necessary due to additional data verification activities (such as EHS&S audits). See the Baxter Data Summary  for additional detail.OPERATIONS  (CONTINUED )
2 Includes manufacturing facilities with energy costs that exceed $200,000 per year and excludes two sites that underwent significant 
change or expansion in production during the reporting year.
3 One cubic meter equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.
4 Water value stream mapping is an interactive, lean manufacturing tool that helps facilities better understand the quantity and quality 
of water used in their processes and identify opportunities for reduction or reuse.
5 To more closely reflect production efficiency and support consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends, we exclude certain 
nonroutine, non-production-related waste streams from our total waste performance data and progress against our 2020 waste goal. 
These waste streams are construction and demolition debris, remediation waste and wastewater treatment sludge.
6 We report “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste.” This term includes some materials that would otherwise be classified as 
nonhazardous waste in some countries, which helps Baxter harmonize waste reporting across locations. In addition to wastes typically 
considered hazardous (such as toxics and corrosives), we also include oils, biohazardous or infectious materials, batteries, fluorescent 
lamps, asbestos and other materials that may not be defined as hazardous waste by national legislation at the point of origin.
7 Incineration with energy recovery is considered recycling.
8 A single waste stream at a facility in Europe has government-mandated requirements. This waste stream is excluded from the total.
9 Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have a high level of certainty and have been verified for the past nine years to a reasonable 
assurance level by Apex Companies LLC. Scope 3 categories are based on various assumptions and estimates. For the past seven 
years, Apex Companies LLC has verified to a limited assurance level Baxter’s methodology and emission factors for calculating 
Scope 3 GHG emissions. The market-based method is used for Scope 2 unless otherwise stated. Data in this report are presented in 
accordance with the GHG Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.
10 In 2019, we used biomass fuels to generate energy in boilers at two Baxter locations, one in the United States and one in Italy. During 
the year, emissions from the Baxter-operated biomass boilers equaled 152,000 metric tons CO2. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, 
these are not included in reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. However, also in accordance with the GHG Protocol, we include 
CO2e emissions from the CH4 and N2O components of biomass combustion in our reported Scope 1 emissions.
11 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power Partnership Fortune 500 Partners List. As of October 21, 2019.
RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT AND LOGISTICS
1 Includes spending with women-owned businesses and minority-owned businesses. Spending with suppliers that certify for  
more than one classification is counted only once. United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through 
September 30 of the year noted).
2 Segments do not add up to 100% due to rounding.
3 Based on https://associated-pallets.co.uk/blog/environmental-impact-recycling-wooden-pallets/ . Last accessed May, 2020. 
INNOVATION THAT EXPANDS ACCESS TO CARE
1 Source: https://www.kidney.org/kidneydisease/global-facts-about-kidney-disease . Last accessed June, 2020.
SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES
1 For employee donations to qualifying U.S. public charities. Houses of worship and political organizations are not eligible for the 
Foundation Matching Gift Program.
2018 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT FINDINGS
1 In this report, we are not using the terms “material” and “materiality” as defined for the purposes of financial and SEC reporting 
in the United States. Instead, the terms refer to environmental, social and economic issues that are of significant importance to 
our stakeholders and to the company. These “material” issues inform our corporate responsibility strategy, priorities and goals, 
and reporting. The issues in this table are listed in alphabetical order. The listing does not reflect the presumed importance or 
“materiality” of any particular issue to Baxter or our stakeholders. 
BAXTER DATA SUMMARY
1 As reported on March 17, 2020, financial results for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2018 have been restated. See Note 2, 
Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of our 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for additional information related to the restatement, including 
descriptions of the misstatements and the impacts on our consolidated financial statements. 
2 “Executive” includes vice presidents and above. “Management” includes directors and managers. “Professional” includes individual 
contributors. “Technical/Clerical” includes employees in operational and administrative/clerical roles. 
3 Americas includes the United States (with Puerto Rico), Canada and Latin America. 
4 Includes American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian, Black/African-American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 
and two or more races.APPENDIX :   Endnotes52
BAXTER 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  
Innovation2020  
Priorities  
and GoalsWorkplace  
CultureEthics and  
ComplianceResponsible 
Procurement and 
LogisticsInnovation That 
Expands  
Access to CareEmployee  
Health  
and SafetyOperationsServing Our 
CommunitiesIntroduction
BAXTER DATA SUMMARY  (CONTINUED )
5 The regional breakdown of the data included in this section reflects the structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability 
(EHS&S) organization and the categorization of data in the EHS&S global information management system through 2019.  
6 Work-related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first aid, including cases with days lost. All rates based on 100 
full-time employees working one year, which equals 200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter follows U.S. Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping requirements worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and conflicting 
medical opinions arise as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, we record on the basis of 
the most authoritative physician’s opinion. For 2017, rates exclude acquisitions until January 1 of the first year following at least 
18 months with Baxter. We include occupational diseases and illnesses, such as hearing loss and ergonomic disorders, within our 
broader categories of cases, but do not track or report those items separately. Due to privacy regulations in our Europe, Middle East 
and Africa region, we do not classify or report injuries by gender. Supervised contracted employees are included in the injury statistics 
reported below and are not tracked separately. Independent contractors are not included in Baxter’s injury data, because they are 
supervised by other organizations. 
7 Work-related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident. Data has been 
updated from Baxter’s 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report to reflect Baxter’s improved performance.
8 The number of days lost (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion due to 
work-related injuries or illnesses. We do not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as lost days. 
9 The number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is 
unable to work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work-related injury or illness. We do not count the date of injury 
and date of return to full duty as restricted days. 
10 The regional breakdown of the data included in this section reflects the structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and 
Sustainability (EHS&S) organization and the categorization of data in the EHS&S global information management system through 
2019. Some data for 2017 and 2018 are updated from data reported in the Baxter 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, due to 
restated data from a few facilities and corrections made for accuracy purposes. Some totals vary from sum of items in category, 
due to rounding. 
11 Totals reflect the removal of methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) as an air toxic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.  
EtO = ethylene oxide; DEHP = di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate. 
12 Includes air emissions associated with on-site energy generation. Emission factors from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
publication “Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors,” AP-42, Fifth Edition, Volume 1: “Stationary Point and Area Sources.” 
13 Excludes energy consumption associated with Baxter-operated mobile sources and renewable electricity generated on site.  
14 Baxter’s Lean Energy Program began in 2007. Early in 2016, we introduced new Lean Energy Program requirements and updated 
some existing ones to better align the program with ISO 50001 requirements for energy management.  
15 Data differ slightly from the 2017 and 2018 totals stated in the Baxter Operations Total line of the Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and GHG Emissions  table, due to changes in emission factors.
16 Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations, since patients dispose of unused product rather than returning 
it to Baxter for disposal. Also excludes construction and demolition debris, remediation waste and wastewater treatment sludge. 
Removing these waste categories from the company total allows for more consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends 
over time. Total waste and regulated waste data from 2018 are restated to reflect a correction in a facility's data. 
17 Excludes production by-products reused on-site, construction and demolition debris, and wastewater treatment sludge. Includes 
discarded/returned products (such as intravenous solution, dextrose solution, etc.) that are nonhazardous in nature but may be 
classified as regulated in some countries. Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations, since patients dispose of 
unused product rather than returning it to Baxter for disposal.
18 Excludes waste recycled on-site, remediation waste, construction and demolition debris, and wastewater treatment sludge. Includes 
certain waste streams (such as waste oils, batteries, fluorescent lamps, light ballasts and asbestos) not classified as regulated in 
some locations. Total waste and regulated waste data from 2018 are restated to reflect a correction in a facility's data.
19 Water usage from Baxter’s 52 sites with the greatest use, representing 96% of the company’s total annual water consumption. 
Availability of renewable water supplies evaluated using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Global Water 
Tool. Extreme-scarcity areas have less than 500 cubic meters of renewable water resources per person per year. Water-scarce 
areas have at least 500 cubic meters but less than 1,000 cubic meters. Water-stressed areas have at least 1,000 cubic meters but 
less than 1,700 cubic meters. Water-sufficient areas have at least 1,700 cubic meters but less than 4,000 cubic meters.  
Water-abundant areas have greater than 4,000 cubic meters.
20 Estimated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways. Data do not include one facility that 
operates zero-discharge systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements. BOD5 refers to five-day biological oxygen demand; 
COD refers to chemical oxygen demand; TSS refers to total suspended solids. When actual performance data were not available, 
estimates are based on performance at similar facilities or on other measured performance indicators. 
21 Of the $79,500 in environmental fines Baxter paid in 2018, $75,000 was associated with three Notices of Violation received in 2016. 
22 Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). 
23 United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). Accounts payable data are 
sent to a third party, which categorizes spending. Other categories include disability-owned, service-disabled-veteran-owned, 
LGBT-owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone-certified businesses. HUBZone is a U.S. Small Business Administration program 
for small companies that operate and employ people in Historically Underutilized Business Zones. Spending with suppliers that 
qualify for more than one category may be included in the totals for each of the relevant categories. BAXTER DATA SUMMARY  (CONTINUED )
24 Variations in Baxter’s annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief 
response, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and changes in product mix and marketing. We identify opportunities 
to donate and respond to community and humanitarian aid partner requests as appropriate. Value of products donated (provided at no 
cost) is provided by partners based on wholesale acquisition cost at the time of donation. This number may be greater or less than the 
value of Baxter products distributed during the year by our relief partners. See Innovation That Expands Access to Care .  
25 Contributions to U.S.-based 501(c)(3) organizations for programs within and outside of the United States.  
BAXTER VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS
1 Baxter used the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol to 
calculate emissions data from fossil fuel use. We used country electricity emission factors published by the International Energy 
Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) E-Grid U.S. regional electricity emission factors to calculate GHG 
emissions related to electricity consumption. 
2 Apex Companies LLC verified to a reasonable level Baxter’s 2017–2019 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Apex Companies LLC 
also verified to a limited level Baxter’s methodology for determining 2017–2019 Scope 3 GHG emissions. 
3 Some data for 2017 and 2018 are updated from data reported in the Baxter 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report for accuracy and to 
reflect updated emission factors. 
4 We used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition to determine GHG emissions 
associated with using biomass fuel, principally wood/wood waste, as a boiler fuel at two Baxter locations. These emissions were 
calculated as 146,000, 145,000 and 152,000 metric tons CO2 in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. CO2e emissions from CH4 and N2O 
components of biomass combustion are included in reported Scope 1 emissions. 
5 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions associated with reported fuel usage by company-managed 
sales and distribution fleet vehicles and other vehicles. We estimated fuel usage for international sales and distribution vehicles 
based on regional sales information. 
6 Refrigerant emissions represent reported CFC, HCFC and HFC refrigerant losses by each Baxter location. We calculated associated 
GHG emissions using actual emission factors for each reported refrigerant. 
7 Includes the purchase of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable electricity (Belgium, Brazil, France, Germany, Ireland, 
Italy, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States). 
8 Estimated based on an environmentally extended input-output model from an independent third party and Baxter’s revenue and 
sector of operation. 
9 Estimated based on capital expenditures and an estimated emission factor per million dollars of capital expenditure from 
benchmarking with industry. 
10 Estimated based on Baxter’s actual yearly energy usage by energy type and GHG emission factors for each energy type per GaBi life 
cycle assessment software. 
11 Estimated by Baxter's independent transportation service provider based on shipment of products to our customers. 
12 Estimated emissions for wastewater treatment by municipalities and off-site waste recycling and disposal based on Baxter’s waste 
generation by type, guidance provided by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (United States) and the U.S. 
EPA WARM model. 
13 Estimated based on domestic and international air mileage, rental vehicle CO 2e emissions or mileage, and hotel room stays 
provided by Baxter’s global travel providers, and using emission factors from UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for  
Company Reporting, Greenhouse Gas Protocol Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions Calculation Tool, and Carbonfund.org Business 
Travel Calculator. 
14 Estimated based on the number of Baxter employees by country and statistics on commuting time and transport mode split  
into public transport, passenger cars, taxi and motorcycle, and walking or bicycling. Emission factors for each mode were  
obtained from Defra. 
15 Emissions associated with upstream leased assets are included in Baxter’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
16 Estimated based on previous Baxter product LCAs as well as the company’s revenue by product type. Category 1 emissions were 
extrapolated to other categories depending on the product type. 
17 Estimated based on an environmentally extended input-output model from an independent third party and revenue from Baxter’s 
contract services business. 
18 Estimated based on production quantities and global warming potential information for certain types of products. Emissions 
for certain other products estimated based on previous Baxter product LCAs as well as the company’s revenue by product type. 
Category 1 emissions were extrapolated to other categories depending on the product type. 
19 Totals do not include CO2 emissions from Baxter-owned wood-fired boilers. See endnote 4 above for detail.
BAXTER FACILITIES WITH ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 AND  
GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS
1 As of December 31, 2019, unless stated otherwise.      
2 The building with green certification noted is one of several buildings at the designated location.APPENDIX :   Endnotes  (continued)Baxter International Inc. 
One Baxter Parkway 
Deerfield, Illinois 60015-4625
USA
www.baxter.com
© Baxter International Inc., 2020. All rights reserved.
This report contains forward-looking statements concerning Baxter, including with respect to compliance, performance, 
goals, plans and initiatives. These statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the 
following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: product 
development risks; continuity, availability and pricing of acceptable raw materials and component supply; risks related to 
cybersecurity or data leakage; failures with respect to compliance programs; accurate identification of and execution on 
R&D opportunities and realization of anticipated benefits; satisfaction of regulatory and other requirements; actions of 
regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities; changes in laws and regulations; product quality, manufacturing or 
supply issues; patient safety issues; and other risks identified in Baxter's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other SEC 
filings, all of which are available on Baxter's website. Baxter does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
References in this report to Baxter are intended to refer collectively to Baxter International Inc. and its U.S. and  
international subsidiaries.
Baxter, Amia, Baxter Renal Care Services, Evo IQ, Floseal, Homechoice, Kaguya, Myxredlin, Revaclear, Sharesource, 
Spectrum IQ and Theranova are trademarks of Baxter International Inc., or its subsidiaries. 
Any other trademarks, product names or brand images appearing herein are the property of their respective owners.Cover Photo: 
In 2019, Baxter and Operation Smile 
partnered to advance safe surgery in 
India. Operation Smile believes everyone 
deserves access to safe and effective 
surgical care and is motivated to help 
patients who too often face complex 
barriers to care, and endure the negative 
health effects and stigma of having 
a cleft condition. Baxter supports four year-round care centers, which 
greatly increase the availability, accessibility and financing for surgical and 
multidisciplinary care for patients and their families. In the first year, the 
centers served more than 2,500 patients with surgical and multidisciplinary 
services, and directly reached more than 10,000 individuals.