2018 CORPORATE  RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MAKING A  MEANINGFUL   DIFFERENCEProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION   F rom the Chairman and CEO   Compan y Profile   Corpor ate Responsibility at Baxter  BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE  8    RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES AND GOALS   PRODUCT INNOVATION   P atient Safety and Quality   Sustainable Design   Materials Use   Pr oduct End-of-Life  WORKPLACE CULTURE   Emplo yee Engagement   Compensation and Benefits   Global Inclusion and Div ersity   W orkplace Flexibility  ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE   Compan ywide Accountability   E thics and Compliance Training  19     Thir d Party Program   Compliance Assessments   Compliance Monitoring   R elationships with Healthcare  20   Pr ofessionals and Government Officials  E thics and Compliance Helpline   Priv acy and Data Protection  EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY   Performance   Injuries and Major  Incidents   Enhancing Saf ety Culture   Health and Wellness Program  22   Management and Initiativ esOPERATIONS   Energy   W ater and Wastewater   Waste   GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain   GHG Emissions fr om Operations   Air  Emissions  RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT  28  AND LOGISTICS  R esponsible Procurement   Gr een Logistics  INNOVATION THAT EXPANDS  32  ACCESS TO CARE  Collabor ating to Improve Healthcare   Pr oduct Donations   The Baxter  International Foundation   Public P olicy  SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES   F ostering Tomorrow’s Innovation   Community  and Employee Engagement   Summary  of 2018 Giving  APPENDIX   About This Report  39   and Recognition    Baxter  Data Summary   Baxter  Value Chain Energy Usage  42   and GHG Emissions  Baxter  Facilities with ISO 14001,  43   OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001    and Gr een Building Certifications  Independent Assur ance Statement   Global R eporting Initiative Index   Endnotes  48ASSURANCE AND VERIFICATION Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.
verified Baxter’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions.
See  verification statement.
Bureau Veritas assured the following sections   of the report: • Product Innovation (except Patient Safety   and Quality) • Employee Health and Safety   • Operations • Responsible Procurement and Logistics • Baxter World Environment Week content in   the Serving Our Communities section • Related material in Appendix: Baxter Data    Summary ; Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and   GHG Emissions; and Baxter Facilities with    ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and Green    Building Certifications See assurance statements in English and Spanish.
Most of the financial data included in the Baxter   Data Summary are taken from the audited  consolidated financial statements contained in  the Baxter International Inc.
2018 Annual Report.
These financial statements are audited by Baxter’s independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.Product  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT From   the Chairman and CEOBaxter is transforming.
Our Mission to Save and Sustain Lives remains   firm, reflecting our longstanding emphasis on  medically essential technologies and our passion   for making a difference.
What’s changing is how   we bring this mission to life.
For the past three years, our approximately 50,000  employees globally have been hard at work building a revitalized Baxter.
We share a reinvigorated focus on driving value through leading-edge innovation; accelerating operational excellence; advancing our culture through speed, simplicity, courage and  collaboration; and enhancing Baxter's status as a  great  place to work for our diverse employee base.
Ultimately, our transformation is about elevating our performance to benefit the many stakeholders we serve, from patients and healthcare providers to our investors and the communities where we do business.
The same spirit of transformation is at work in how we  embrace our role as a leading corporate citizen.
This is  as fundamental to our mission as the products in our  portfolio.
Our opportunity now is to sharpen our focus and refine our execution in order to increase our impact.
This report outlines our priorities and accomplishments  in 2018.
With our employees leading the way, we have already exceeded a number of our 2020 goals, including: • We reduced absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 14%  compared with 2015, due in part to 29% of our energy use in operations coming from renewable sources.
• We increased spending with diverse suppliers from  4% of relevant spending in 2015 to 6.1% in 2018,   an increase of more than 50%.
• We advanced our commitment to PVC recovery  and recycling, with partnerships in more than 200  hospitals and clinics across Australia, New Zealand  and Guatemala.
• We achieved a 19% decrease in product complaints through 2018, compared with 2015, as well as  improvements across many other quality-related  metrics, reflecting our commitment to patient safety  and quality, and continuous improvements in product  performance and customer service.
2018 also marked the third year of our Driving Your  Health initiative, a free community mobile medical program serving greater Mexico City.
Through 2018, more than 630,000 people benefited from this program,  exceeding our goals.
Based in part on this success, our go-forward grant strategy will emphasize larger-scale, multiyear grants to help increase the reach of quality healthcare in underserved communities globally.
Many thanks to our committed Baxter employees  around the world, whose passion and tenacity fuel our corporate responsibility efforts, as well as our broader  transformation.
Together we remain focused on   creating lasting social, environmental and economic value for our stakeholders in support of our mission.
JOSÉ (JOE) E.
ALMEIDA    |   Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Product  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Company Profile About Us Every day, millions of patients and caregivers rely on  Baxter's leading portfolio of critical care, nutrition,  renal, hospital and surgical products.
For more than  85 years, we have been operating at the intersection  where innovations that save and sustain lives meet the  healthcare providers that make it happen.
This heritage gives us a distinct perspective on the needs of patients and caregivers.
We lead today by putting those  insights to work to deliver new, enhanced healthcare  solutions and improve access to care.
We have a  longstanding commitment to research and development  (R&D), and a rich history of medical firsts, from the first  commercially manufactured IV solutions to the first  portable kidney dialysis machine, and many more.To continue to transform and increase access to care  for patients around the world, we are investing in  new collaborations, partnering with world-renowned  institutions, seeking out the next generation of  innovators in healthcare and funding the pursuit of new discoveries and research.
Baxter’s employees  worldwide are now building upon the company’s  legacy of medical breakthroughs to advance the next  generation of transformative healthcare innovations.
We are dedicated to ensuring that Baxter is there  when and where patients need care, from hospitals  and clinics to homes in rural areas and major cities.
Global Presence  Baxter's products, technologies and therapies are available  in more than 100 countries across three geographic  segments: the Americas (including both North and South  America); Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia- Pacific (APAC).
Our corporate headquarters is in Deerfield, Illinois.
R&D is conducted at centers in Belgium, China,  Germany, India, Italy, Sweden and the United States.
Our  products are manufactured in approximately 50 facilities  across more than 20 countries.
Each of the company’s business units provides a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute  and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile IV solutions; infusion  systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies;  inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals;  and surgical hemostat and sealant products.
Renal Care$3.7 B Pharmaceuticals$2.
1 B Advanced Surgery$0.8 B Medication Delivery$2.7 B Clinical Nutrition$0.9 B Acute Therapies$0.5 BREVENUE BY GLOBAL BUSINESS UNIT, 2018* Europe,  Middle East and Africa Americas53% 27%20%Asia Pacific $11.1 BREVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT, * Sales and related figures represent fiscal year 2018; other sales represent ~$0.5B.
Sum of business unit revenues does not equal total global revenue due to rounding.100+Products  available in countries20+Manufacturing  facilities in countries~50 ,employees worldwideProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate  Responsibility  at Baxter Corporate responsibility is integral to Baxter's  business strategy and supports our mission to save and sustain lives.
We strive to be ever conscious of the impact we have on our employees, our communities and on the people and patients who depend on our  products globally.
Corporate responsibility has been  vital to our culture for decades and is championed   by our employees worldwide.
Our corporate responsibility strategy focuses on the environmental, social, economic and governance issues that matter most to our company and stakeholders, that drive positive business performance, and where we can make a meaningful difference.
This strategy supports  our company’s efforts to achieve top quartile results  relative to industry peers and other comparators  across four dimensions:            Patient safety and Quality            Growth through innovation          Best place to work          Industry-leading performance We are committed to sharing information about our  2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals and  performance.
Our annual Corporate Responsibility  Report illustrates our commitment to sound governance and balanced, transparent disclosure.Managing Corporate Responsibility Baxter’s Corporate Responsibility Council is composed  of executives and subject matter experts from across  the company.
The Council, which meets quarterly, helps  oversee our corporate responsibility strategies and   leads our efforts to integrate corporate responsibility  throughout our business.
The Council’s role is to: • Advance our corporate responsibility strategy and culture  • Implement our 2020 corporate responsibility   priorities and goals • Provide oversight and drive organizational accountability• Deliver updates to our Board of Directors, including   a discussion of related goals and industry trends • Solicit and review stakeholder input  Stakeholder Engagement Baxter engages with a broad range of stakeholders to  inform our corporate responsibility strategy.
They provide  valuable insights about how we are perceived, how our  products are used and can be improved, and potential  sources for innovation and inspiration.
We identify and  engage with stakeholders based on their expertise, level  of influence, willingness to collaborate, impact on Baxter  and our company's impact on them.GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BAXTER Chairman and CEO Corporate Responsibility Council (Members/Goal Owners) VP, Finance –  Operations & Quality SVP, CommunicationsVP, Purchasing General Manager, Renal CareVP, Quality –  Hospital Products VP, Global Patient SafetyVP, Sales – U.S. Based Hospital ProductsVP, HR - Operations & QualityExecutive Sponsor  SVP, Operations Corporate Responsibility Working GroupChair:  VP, Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability Associate General Counsel, Regulatory Law VP, Supply Chain VP, EngineeringProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In 2018, Ceres, a sustainability nonprofit organization,  convened a group of Baxter stakeholders to provide us with input about our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Based on that feedback, we have made several changes to this 2018 report, including:  • Expanded on the business case for sustainability  by mapping Baxter’s top quartile goals to our 2020 corporate responsibility priorities • Added links in the material issues table that point to related content in the report • Provided graphical representations of progress against many of our 2020 goals at the beginning of related sectionsMateriality To understand and prioritize issues that are   critical to the long-term sustainability of our  business, we periodically conduct assessments to identify the corporate responsibility issues that are most relevant to Baxter and our stakeholders.
In 2018, we worked with an external partner to  update our corporate responsibility “materiality” assessment and verify and refine our list of material issues.
As used in this report, “materiality” or “material” refers to environmental, social and economic issues that are deemed to be of significant importance to our stakeholders and to the company.
These “material” issues inform our corporate responsibility strategy, priorities and goals, and  reporting, and are not the same as “material” issues  for the purposes of the company's financial and   SEC reporting in the United States.
The process for this assessment included:   • Review of the material issues defined during our  prior materiality assessment, conducted in • Assessment of the material issues of industry peers, based on recent corporate responsibility reports • Analysis of issues defined as material by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  for the Medical Equipment and Supplies and  Pharmaceuticals industries • Review of issues prioritized for the Health Care Equipment and Supplies industry by the Dow Jones  Sustainability Index• Development of a working list of material issues  based on the analysis described above • Interviews with 15 Baxter executives and 14   external stakeholders, including customers,  investors, NGOs, suppliers and other companies,  to determine how important it is for Baxter to  effectively manage each issue on the working list,  considering factors such as the impact of the   issue on Baxter as well as the company's impacts and influence related to each issue Based on these inputs, we verified and refined our   list of material issues (see table on following page).
Key findings included: • Our 2020 corporate responsibility priorities and  goals, defined in 2015, continue to align with the  issues that are most relevant to our stakeholders  and our company.
• Internal and external stakeholders provided   similar ratings for many of the issues, indicating  strong alignment.
• Product-related issues, such as patient safety and  quality, healthcare access and affordability, and  privacy and data protection, were among the most  highly rated issues overall.
• Among internal stakeholders, employee-related  issues ranked especially high, including employee  attraction, development and retention; diversity   and inclusion; and health, safety and well-being.
Outcomes from this assessment inform our corporate  responsibility priorities and strategy.Communities Shareholders Patients/ healthcare  providersGovernments/ payersEmployeesBAXTER'S FIVE PRIMARY STAKEHOLDER GROUPSProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT *In this report, we are not using the terms “material” and “materiality” as defined for the purposes of financial and SEC reporting in the United States.
Instead, the terms refer to environmental, social and economic  issues that are of significant importance to our stakeholders and to the company.
These “material” issues inform our corporate responsibility strategy, priorities and goals, and reporting.
The issues in this table  are listed in alphabetical order.
The listing does not reflect the presumed importance or “materiality” of any particular issue to Baxter or our stakeholders.Climate changeReducing energy consumption and expanding use of renewable energy in Baxter’s operations and reducing greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions across our value chain; incorporating climate change strategy, including adaptation and resilience planning, into relevant business decisions.
Learn more.
Community support and volunteerism Supporting communities in need where Baxter has a presence, with partnerships aimed at addressing economic, environmental and social needs, including through financial contributions and employee volunteerism.
Learn more.
Diversity and inclusion Maintaining an inclusive, nondiscriminatory hiring process and culture; providing employees equal pay for equal work regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation or disability; welcoming, leveraging and appreciating the uniqueness   of every Baxter employee; and supporting supplier diversity.
Learn more.
Employee attraction, development and retention Attracting, engaging and retaining top talent by providing employees career and personal training and development opportunities, and designing succession plans to ensure there are qualified Baxter candidates for critical positions; upholding labor rights and ensuring that labor concerns can be reported.
Learn more.
Ethics and compliance Providing an effective corporate governance structure, business processes, marketing standards, and reporting  mechanisms, and fostering an open culture that demonstrates the highest ethics and anticorruption standards.
Learn more.
Health, safety and  well-being Providing employees with a zero-harm workplace, an environment that encourages healthy choices, and resources to maintain and improve their health and safety and that of their families.
Learn more.
Healthcare access and affordability Improving access to, and affordability of, Baxter products and services for populations in need, through product   innovation, public health initiatives, public policy efforts, business model innovation and strategic giving, which includes product donations and grants from the Baxter International Foundation.
Learn more.
Human rightsEnsuring workers across Baxter’s value chain are treated in accordance with international standards of   human rights.
Learn more.
Innovation Investing in innovation that solves for unmet needs and improves patient outcomes and standards of care.
Learn more.
Patient safety and qualityHelping to ensure quality and patient safety across the product life cycle, through leading practices in design,   materials use, manufacturing, communications, surveillance and reporting.
Learn more.
Privacy and data protectionProtecting personal information from unauthorized or inappropriate collection, processing and disclosure, and protecting information resources from threats, whether internal or external, deliberate or accidental.
Learn more.
Product sustainability Incorporating and managing sustainability across the product life cycle (R&D and design, materials use including   chemicals of concern, manufacturing, product transport, packaging, product use and end-of-life), and communicating sustainable product attributes to customers.
Learn more.
Supply chain sustainability Working with suppliers to improve their own sustainability programs and performance, as well as Baxter’s.
Learn more.
WasteMinimizing disposal of manufacturing waste from Baxter’s operations, first through source reduction and reuse and then through recycling and energy recovery .
Learn more.
Water useReducing water use in Baxter’s operations, increasing reuse, managing water discharge quality and protecting local water sources, especially in water-scarce areas .
Learn more.Issue Description Upstream DownstreamBaxter  OperationsIMPACT WITHIN VALUE CHAIN 2018 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT FINDINGS*BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction GOALS PROGRESS PRIORITIESBaxter 2020 Corporate Responsibility Priorities and Goals Baseline is 2015 unless otherwise stated.
WORKPLACE   CULTURE Promote inclusion,   diversity and   employee engagement ETHICS AND  COMPLIANCE   Drive a culture of  integrity and the highest  ethical behavior EMPLOYEE HEALTH  AND SAFETY  Achieve a zero-harm  workplace and improve  employee well-beingPRODUCT INNOVATION  Improve sustainability  and performance of  products and servicesAchieve at least 15% material reduction on three  therapies/products compared to those currently on the market, without affecting efficacyEnhance product quality and patient safety by  achieving a 15% reduction in product complaints, compared to 2015 (aggregate)  Eliminate 3,000 metric tons of packaging material  from Baxter products shipped to customers Eliminate or minimize the presence of   chemicals of concern (as defined by regulations) in new products Partner with organizations to implement  recycling of product waste at hospitals and increase participation from 60 hospitals to Aspire to diversity in leadership at or  above benchmarks  Achieve an employee engagement score  comparable to top quartile companies as  measured by Baxter’s Best Place to Work survey Drive highest integrity and compliance to achieve  zero government enforcement actions over  compliance issues  Achieve overall compliance culture scores in the top quartile of general industry benchmarks  Reduce employee health risk by increasing  participation from 35% to 45% in BeWell@Baxter health promotion program initiatives and by expanding family participationAchieve the top quartile in total recordable incident rate among global companies across all industries as measured by ORC HSEIn 2018, we launched Spectrum IQ Infusion System and Evo IQ Infusion System, which utilize our  single set technology that can help reduce use of IV tubing by up to 30%.
The Evo IQ lightweight, portable pump is 47% lighter than its predecessor.
Our Kaguya automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) system cycler, also launched in 2018, is 40% lighter than the previous generation technology and may reduce the weight of disposables by up to 14%.
Based on these products and Baxter’s Amia APD  system cycler, launched in 2015, we have exceeded our goal.The company achieved a 19% decrease through 2018, compared with 2015, exceeding our goal.We have eliminated 1,593 metric tons of packaging material from products shipped to customers from 2016 through 2018.
During 2018, Baxter continued to eliminate and reduce chemicals of concern by changing existing products and processes.
This included expanding our offering of DEHP-free intravenous access sets and reducing usage of cyclohexanone in manufacturing processes at multiple locations.
We continued to screen all new products under development to minimize, or preferably eliminate, the use or presence of chemicals of concern.
Participation in a program in Australia and New Zealand to recover PVC in hospitals increased to  178 hospitals in 2018.
During the year, we also established a PVC recycling initiative in Guatemala with 25 participating facilities.
Combined, the number of participating facilities exceeded our goal.
At most career levels, we remained at or above benchmarks for women (globally) and ethnic  minority representation (in the United States) during 2018.
We continued to improve our results, increasing our 2018 score in the engagement category of Baxter's Best Place to Work survey by two percentage points compared with 2017.
The company's score was 7 percentage points above the global average, and 4 percentage points below the top quartile benchmark.
Baxter had zero corruption-related enforcement actions in 2018.
Baxter achieved favorable ratings on the two employee survey questions related to ethics culture during 2018.
Although above average, the scores were 1 and 2 percentage points below top quartile companies.
During 2018, Baxter achieved an average employee participation rate of 38% for the Personal Wellness  Profile, the Exercise Challenge and Healthy Eating Month.In a comparison of 36 global companies across all industries,4 Baxter’s total recordable incident  rate in 2018 ranked eighth, or top 22%, achieving our goal.
BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8Our 2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals support Baxter's top quartile goals, which include:Patient safety  and QualityGrowth through innovationBest place to workIndustry-leading performanceBAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction GOALS PROGRESS Reduce total energy and water use and total  waste generation by 15% indexed to revenue Reduce absolute greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions by 10%Pursue zero waste-to-landfill by achieving   a landfill diversion rate of 95% or higher at all manufacturing locations Increase Baxter’s spending with diverse suppliers by 50%, from 4% of relevant spending in 2015 to 6% in 5  Expand green transport partnerships with government agencies, nongovernmental organizations and/or private companies from one business region to all business regions globally Proactively pre-position Baxter’s donated  products with donor partners, which will enable them to optimally distribute and be first on scene to address critical medical needs Establish the Baxter International Foundation  Partnership Grant program in 2016 to drive increased access to healthcare for an incremental 10,000 patients annually Launch two new emerging market business  models in Baxter’s renal business Complete two projects, including one by 2018,  that support access to clean water or enhance sanitation in water-stressed areas where Baxter has an operational presenceThrough 2018, Baxter reduced energy use by 7%, water use by 7% and total waste generation by 10%, all indexed to revenue and compared with 2015.
We anticipate potential challenges with further decreases due to product and manufacturing changes.
Baxter reduced absolute GHG emissions by 14% during 2018 compared with 2015, exceeding our goal.Twenty-one manufacturing sites, representing nearly 40% of the total, achieved landfill diversion rates of 95% or higher through 2018.
We are working with outside experts to accelerate progress in the coming years.
Baxter increased purchases with diverse suppliers to 6.1% of relevant spending during 2018, exceeding our goal.
During 2018, Baxter continued participating with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's SmartWay program as both a Carrier and Shipper Partner.
As of December 2018, we are using carbon credits to offset all of our UPS shipping outside of the United States.
In 2018, Baxter donated nearly $6 million in products to partners Americares, Direct Relief and  Partners In Health.
These organizations distributed Baxter products in 84 countries in response to disasters, and to support ongoing humanitarian aid and medical missions.
This is a part of our manufacture-to-donate program launched in 2016 to pre-position our products.
Since 2016, we have partnered with Direct Relief and the Driving Your Health program to increase access to healthcare for people in and around Mexico City.
From 2016 through 2018, approximately 69,000 people benefited directly and 562,000 benefited indirectly through this program, exceeding our goal.
In partnership with a government hospital in rural Indonesia, we launched a pilot clinic during 2018 to promote best clinical practices in peritoneal dialysis and improve patient outcomes.
During 2018, we launched Project Srujal—an initiative to provide 11 villages with clean drinking  water near our manufacturing plant in Ahmedabad, India.
This is in addition to our partnership with Fundación Solar in Guatemala, established in 2017.RESPONSIBLE  PROCUREMENT  AND LOGISTICS   Implement world- class sustainability  practices with   key partners INNOVATION THAT EXPANDS ACCESS TO CARE Improve access   to healthcare for   the underserved SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES   Support communities  worldwide in  enduring waysOPERATIONS  Reduce environmental  footprint through  increased efficiency  and resource  conservationBaxter 2020 Corporate Responsibility Priorities and Goals Baseline is 2015 unless otherwise stated.
BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9PRIORITIES Our 2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals support Baxter's top quartile goals, which include:Patient safety  and QualityGrowth through innovationBest place to workIndustry-leading performanceBAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction 19% reduction in  product complaints * 1,metric tons of packaging     material eliminated ** * Compared with 2015     ** Since hospitals and clinics  in Australia, New Zealand  and Guatemala  participated in programs  to recover PVC wasteProduct  Innovation Improve sustainability and  performance of products and services 2018 HIGHLIGHTSBaxter develops products that save and sustain lives  worldwide, delivering on our mission and representing our most important contribution to society.
Patient safety and quality are fundamental to our ongoing success.
We have extensive policies and processes to ensure  excellence in these areas, and we continue to innovate  new products and services that enhance patient safety and drive improved patient outcomes.Demand for our products is expected to continue growing as the global population pushes toward 9.8 billion people by 1 and standards of living improve  globally.
To minimize our environmental impacts, we work to capture the most value possible from the natural resources needed to manufacture, transport, use and recover our products.
We are beginning to shift  from a linear approach of “take, make, dispose” to the  circular approach illustrated in the graphic below.
This can save money and reduce our environmental impact and that of our customers.
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the  content in this section (except the Patient Safety and Quality subsection).
SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE We are beginning to transition from a linear to a circular approach that maximizes the value gained  from materials, while improving environmental performance and the customer experience.
Product End-of-Life  We work to repair and reuse electromechanical  medical products when possible and collaborate with  partners around the world to recycle medical wasteSustainable Design We use Environmental, Health, Safety  and Sustainability reviews and life cycle assessments to understand product environmental performance and requirements  and drive ongoing  improvements across the value chain.Materials Use We innovate to reduce materials use in  our products, decrease waste in  manufacturing and packaging, and  minimize use of materials of concern Patient Safety and Quality We have an unrelenting  dedication to patient safety  and quality that is  foundational to the  company’s mission and  ongoing success.
BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 10BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Patient Safety and Quality Baxter's commitment to patient safety is at the core of  all we do.
Our success depends on the safety and quality of our products and services.
We focus on quality across the product life cycle, from product development and enhancements to post-market surveillance.
Building on years of steady work in this area, our  patient safety and product performance approach and processes are driven by our commitment to continuous improvement.
In 2018, we continued to make progress on complaint reduction as well as improvements on other quality-related metrics (see graphic).
New, Innovative Products Showcase Patient   Safety and Resource Efficiency As Baxter develops new products, we strive to make them safe, user friendly and effective for patients  and caregivers while minimizing the environmental impact of production and use.
We launched several  products in 2018 that highlight our focus in these areas, including the following:   PrisMax System is our next-generation technology for  continuous renal replacement and organ support therapies.
This product, which has launched in select markets, features innovative technology to make delivering therapy simpler and more efficient while improving treatment accuracy in the  intensive care unit.
It consumes 15% less energy than our  previous generation technology.
PrisMax System can also  automatically empty into a drain instead of waste bags if the proper facilities are available.
This markedly decreases use of disposables as one auto-effluent accessory can take the place of 72 effluent bags for every 144 hours of use.
Launched in select markets, the Spectrum IQ Infusion System with Dose IQ Safety Software is the first of its kind.
It was designed specifically for bi-directional electronic medical record integration, with exclusive features to help ensure the correct medications and  fluids are delivered to the patient.
We partnered with  First Databank to integrate an evidence-based library of IV medications into our Dose IQ Safety Software, making delivery of IV infusions safer.
In addition, single set technology enables clinicians to easily switch between gravity and pump applications without changing sets.
This may help reduce use of IV tubing by up to 30%, lower IV tubing set costs by up to 53% and decrease opportunities for touch contamination that can lead to  patient infection and the potential spread of pathogens.Our Evo IQ Infusion System, launched in   select markets, features a scalable platform,  user-centric design and intuitive workflows that  optimize clinician efficiency.
Like Spectrum IQ, Evo IQ works with Baxter’s customizable Dose IQ   Safety Software to streamline programming and  help reduce the chance of medication error.
Evo IQ features a lightweight, portable pump that is 47% lighter than its predecessor, and its modular design enables easy and cost-effective service and maintenance, potentially extending  the life of the product.
Because Evo IQ also uses  single set technology, it provides similar benefits to Spectrum IQ in terms of reduced use and  costs for IV tubing and reduced opportunities   for touch contamination.
Available in Japan, Kaguya is an innovative  automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) system designed to improve access to renal therapy at home.
Together with Sharesource remote patient  monitoring, the system provides remote visibility  and proactive patient therapy management for healthcare providers.
The Kaguya APD cycler is about 40% lighter than the previous generation technology and may reduce the weight of disposables by up to 14%.
19%73%61%42% reduction reduction reduction reductionComplaint  incidentsMedical device  reportsField alert  reportsField  actionsPROGRESS FROM 2015 TO 2018 * * “Complaint incidents ” are the number of alleged product defects globally.
“Medical  device reports ” are reports submitted to U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of  certain medical device malfunctions, serious injuries or deaths associated with the use  of a medical device.
“ Field alert reports ” are reports submitted to FDA for a specific  drug application and defect category.
“Field actions ” include both recalled products  and non-recall actions taken on distributed products globally.
All data include  acquisitions and supplier-related data.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction To support our sustainable design efforts, we utilize an  Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S)  review.
This required assessment occurs during the  product development process for all new products to  assess environmental, health and safety, sustainability  and regulatory considerations and requirements across  the value chain.
This includes high-level review as well  as more detailed life cycle assessment (LCA)-based  computer modeling of proposed products and may  involve comparison with existing products.
Key metrics  have demonstrated progress in avoiding materials of  concern, minimizing customer waste and reducing product carbon footprint.
EHS&S review also helps us  to continually improve our operations, meet customer  expectations and manage regulatory risk.
For select new and established products, we use full LCAs to evaluate and improve product sustainability  performance.
During 2018, we conducted an LCA of  our Revaclear and Theranova dialyzers.
Based on this  analysis, we estimate that the carbon footprints of these  products range from 2.0 to 2.5 kg CO 2e per dialyzer for  the EU market.
The facility in Germany where Baxter  manufactures these dialyzers has reduced its energy and  water use per unit of production, reduced the waste it In 2018, we implemented more than 100 improvements to Baxter products.
During 2018, we standardized our Product Quality Data Review process globally, which has created a consistent,  multi-tiered approach to evaluating our products.
We took  a “one Baxter” approach to ensure alignment across the  organization and significantly improved our design control,  change control and labeling processes.
This enabled  swifter implementation of product improvement actions  and established the framework for future improvements  across our diverse product portfolio.
Ongoing efforts  include the following: • Stronger oversight and increased monitoring of  suppliers and external contract manufacturers, and tighter product specifications to help reduce supplier- related defects and recalls.
• Manufacturing improvements and increased use of  automated visual inspection systems to help reduce potential recalls.• Labeling improvements to institute tighter controls   and monitoring to help eliminate potential recalls due   to labeling defects.
• Product design changes and enhancements to help eliminate errors in use.
Since 2015, we have successfully lifted five U.S. Food and  Drug Administration (FDA) Warning Letters.
We are working  diligently to remove the two FDA Warning Letters that  remain: the combined Warning Letter issued in May 2013  for the Marion (North Cove), North Carolina, and Jayuya,  Puerto Rico, facilities, and a Warning Letter issued in July  2018 for the Ahmedabad, India, facility, which was acquired  through the Claris Injectables purchase in July 2017.
FDA inspections of the Marion (North Cove) and Jayuya  facilities, in 2018 and 2019, respectively, were classified  as Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI); final resolution is  pending, which may be sufficient to lift the Warning Letter.
We are preparing for a re-inspection of our Ahmedabad  facility, with a goal to have the Warning Letter lifted in 2020.
We continue to strengthen our relationships with  regulatory bodies.
In 2017, we were among a select few of industry leaders to join a pilot program with FDA, which  included Capability Maturity Model Integration appraisals  at two sites.
During 2018, an additional seven Baxter plants were included in the appraisals as we worked with  FDA to move the program beyond the pilot stage and into  sustainable operations.
This new approach is expected to develop standards and metrics that the agency can use to  compare companies more effectively, identify leaders in  safety and quality, and determine inspection frequency.
Sustainable Design Baxter’s product sustainability program embeds   product stewardship across the company in partnership with our Research and Development, Marketing and  Supply Chain groups.
Revaclear Revaclear Theranova Theranova  300 400 400 Materials 40% 38% 39% 39% Manufacturing 33% 36% 35% 36% Distribution 1% 1% 1% 1% Disposal 26% 24% 25% 24% Total Kg CO2e 2.0 2.3 2.2 2.* Gl obal warming potential, excluding biogenic carbon, of Revaclear 300, Revaclear 400,  Theranova 400 and Theranova 500 dialyzers—EU Market.GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FOOTPRINT: REVACLEAR   AND THERANOVA DIALYZERS * [Kg CO2e]RESULTS PRODUCT IMPROVEMENTS• Design control • Change control• Labeling process• Enhanced patient     safety and quality • Improved product     performance • Improved     customer service100+ ENABLERSBAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction generates in production, is a zero waste-to-landfill facility  and has used 100% renewable electricity since 2017.
The  procurement of 100% renewable electricity alone reduced  the carbon footprint of the dialyzers by 34–37% compared  with the carbon footprint the dialyzers would have if the  facility used average electricity grid energy sources.
As a founding member of the Sustainable Healthcare  Coalition (SHC), we work to understand customer needs and trends related to sustainable healthcare and help drive  the industry forward.
We published two environmental  case studies on the SHC website in 2018, using the SHC’s  healthcare products and care pathways carbon footprinting  guidance: one related to the environmental impact of  continual renal replacement therapy with Prismaflex  System , and another related to the environmental impact   of our CWP 800 water purification system.
Materials Use Materials use is a key driver of Baxter’s environmental  footprint, so getting the most value possible from materials is central to our transition toward a more circular approach.
Reducing plastic waste and increasing recycling is critical, as plastic scrap from manufacturing is Baxter’s largest  waste stream.
Compared with our 2015 baseline, we have  reduced plastic scrap per unit of production by 10% at  18 sites globally, representing nearly 85% of our overall  plastic volume.
Our facility in San Vittore, Switzerland, is  the main manufacturer in Europe of the plastic film used in our products for the European market.
This site has  implemented a series of projects over the past several  years to reduce plastic scrap.
These projects have led to a  reduction of 140 metric tons (13% per unit of production)  in 2018 compared with 2017 and a reduction of 268 metric  tons (24% per unit of production) compared with 2015.
We also innovate to decrease the environmental impact of product packaging, without adversely affecting product  safety or efficacy, by reducing the amount used and  substituting with environmentally preferable materials.
From 2016 to 2018, we have reduced packaging globally  from products shipped to customers by 1,593 metric tons.
Keeping materials of concern out of the waste stream increases the value of discarded material and the potential  for such material to be reused for other high-value  purposes.
We have global strategies and programs to help  ensure that we meet product materials restrictions, such as  the EU RoHS2 Directive and EU REACH Regulation, among others.
We also work to avoid or minimize the use of conflict  minerals in our products, beginning in the early stages of  product development.
As part of our EHS&S product reviews,  we consult a number of lists, which help us avoid chemicals of concern.
These lists include, but are not limited to: • California Proposition 65  • EU Medical Devices Regulation  • EU REACH Substances of Very High Concern  • EU RoHS • Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the  Ozone Layer  • Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants • US SEC conflict minerals  Additional substances we seek to avoid or minimize  include endocrine disrupters, latex, phthalates, volatile  organic compounds and others that might not appear on  the lists above.
See Baxter’s position statement on conflict   minerals and our most recent Conflict Minerals Report.Striving for Full Materials Disclosure Baxter undertakes a variety of activities to comply with  product chemical and medical device regulations.
Working  with a third party, we collect data from suppliers to  determine the use of substances of very high concern.
This helps us to confirm compliance with global material  regulations and assists us in proactively monitoring the  impact that changes in global legislation might have on our  product portfolio.
We also continue to leverage third-party  testing, which provides us with full material data and LCAs  Packaging Reduction Efforts During 2018, we initiated several projects to reduce  packaging, including:  • We changed the shipping carton we use at our  Amata, Thailand, facility for our 2-liter peritoneal dialysis (PD) solution—leading to a reduction of  197 metric tons in cardboard (a 10% decrease)  and $25,000 in savings annually.
• At our facility in Atlacomulco, Mexico, we reduced the thickness of our renal Twin Bag Containers, which reduced the weight of the  bags by 30%.
We also reduced the amount of  stretch film we use to package the product by 60%.
These projects saved 11 metric tons of plastic and more than $30,000 annually.
• Our facility in Lille, France, is working with a local hospital system to use reusable totes rather than corrugated boxes for our deliveries.
We then pick up the empty containers so we can  reuse them for the next shipment.
This will save 2 metric tons of packaging annually and serves as a model for expansion to other hospitals.
10% less plastic scrap per unit of  production at sites representing  nearly 85% of our  overall plastic volume*  * Compared with 2015 baselineBAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction for many of our devices.
This helps to validate that the  devices are in compliance with chemical legislation and  provides information we need to respond to environmental  questionnaires from customers.
As of the end of 2018, we  completed testing for six of our electromechanical devices,  which included more than 7,500 parts.
Additionally, in Europe, we are a member of MedTech, where we work with other multinational pharma/medical  device companies to drive full material disclosure in  global material compliance.
As members, we also  monitor RoHS and REACH developments and contribute  to greater understanding of the hazardous substances  requirements for the EU Medical Device Regulation to  enable consistent interpretation and efficient compliance.
Product End-of-Life Baxter works to recapture valuable materials for reuse  at the end of product life.
Some of the electromechanical  medical devices we sell, such as renal APD cyclers,  support progress toward the circular economy through  serviceability, repair and reuse.
We lease certain types of  electromechanical medical products to customers and  patients, which helps ensure they have the technology  that best meets their needs and provides more flexibility than owning the devices.
This model also ensures those  products will be returned to Baxter after a set period of  time for repair and reuse.
Regulations in many countries worldwide require  responsible recycling of electronic products when reuse  is no longer an option.
For example, the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive  requires manufacturers to arrange for the take-back of  electronic products at end-of-life.
Our WEEE website   provides customers detailed information on how to return or dispose of Baxter products in accordance   with the directive.
We also work with customers, industry peers and  recycling and disposal vendors to facilitate the recycling  and responsible treatment of disposable medical  products.
Baxter is a charter member and leads the technical working group for the Healthcare Plastics   Recycling Council (HPRC).
As part of this working  group, we help apply the collective technical knowledge,  experience and resources of the HPRC to address  barriers to healthcare plastics recycling and to drive change in the industry.
During 2018, we partnered with HPRC to run a workshop in the Netherlands, bringing  together stakeholders from across the plastics value  chain to explore solutions to barriers in hospital plastic recycling.
In addition, several of the HPRC projects in which we have participated were completed, including: • A case study that explores the recycling programs  and related partnerships that Kaiser Permanente   and the Cleveland Clinic put in place to facilitate  recycling at their facilities  • An update to the HospiCycle Toolbox with space   guidelines for hospitals, including two tools on   which Baxter took the lead: dock space guidelines  and small space guidelines  • A value chain map for vendors and stakeholders  that illustrates the various paths materials might  take within healthcare plastics recycling Practicing what we have helped to develop, Baxter   has introduced a number of programs to facilitate  recycling for patients and hospitals.
In Australia and   New Zealand, we assist patients who receive regular home deliveries of dialysis solutions to recycle related waste.
As of the end of 2018, about 30% of Baxter PD home patients in these countries (more than 800  patients) participated in the Home PD Recycling Program.
In 2018, the program collected and recycled 268 metric tons of plastic and 132 metric tons of cardboard.Also in Australia and New Zealand, Baxter actively  collaborates with the Vinyl Council of Australia to offer  PVC and aluminum recovery initiatives for hospitals.
We have established a similar program in Guatemala,  in partnership with Biotrash, a Central American waste management company.
Through the program, we collect and recycle PVC and other plastics from hospitals and dialysis clinics.
As of the end of 2018, 25  facilities were participating in the program and Biotrash  had recovered 2 metric tons of PVC, which was recycled  into the soles of shoes distributed to children who  attend the Thelma Arroyo School, Valle de Guatemala  in Guatemala City.
The shoes were handmade in  Totonicapán by indigenous Kekchis women, providing jobs and income to this minority group.metric ton of aluminum  bottles recycledNearly 1metric tons of PVC recycledhospitals in New Zealand hospitals and  clinics in Guatemalahospitals in  Australia 25 hospitals in  New Zealand hospitals in  Australia 16 40HOSPITAL WASTE RECYCLING IN AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND  AND GUATEMALA, 2018BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Baxter is committed to providing our approximately  50,0001 employees worldwide with a Best Place to Work.
We remain steadfast in driving a high-performing,  inclusive and diverse organization where employees  pursue rewarding careers and take pride in bringing  the company’s mission to life.
To help employees realize their full potential and reward them for their  contributions, we offer a wide range of learning  and development opportunities and competitive compensation and benefits.
(View workforce data.) Employee Engagement Performance and Career Development At Baxter, we embrace a continuous feedback model for performance management.
This includes monthly  check-ins between employees and their managers  that focus on feedback and career development.
During 2018, we continued to drive adoption of regular  check-ins and enhancement of managers’ skills to engage in productive performance conversations   with employees.
We've found that employees who   take part in monthly check-ins have engagement   rates that are 23 percentage points higher than  employees who do not.
Historically, we've focused our talent review and  planning process on senior leaders.
During 2018, we  expanded this process down through the manager  level.
This helped us better understand our global talent pipeline, identify high-potential employees and  mitigate retention-related risk.Talent Development Baxter's talent development philosophy emphasizes  continuous learning, building relationships (including mentoring) and enhancing work experiences.
Continuous Learning     We provide virtual, online  and classroom offerings worldwide on topics such as  business/financial acumen, leadership, management, product knowledge and a wide range of job-specific skills.
During 2018, we worked to improve the training we  provide to employees, offering a broad range of relevant,  high-quality content with a focus on helping employees advance their personal and professional development.
As of January 2019, our training is consolidated into a single, mobile-friendly learning platform, called BAXU.
In 2018, we recorded a total of 1.64 million training hours,  which equals approximately 32.8 hours per employee.
Rotational Development Programs    Early-career employees can develop skills and enhance knowledge of Baxter through rotational programs.
We recruit early-career professionals in Finance, IT, Marketing, Operations/Quality, Research and Development, and  Sales to participate in these programs.
Learn more  about our rotational development programs.
Summer Internships     To invest in our future  workforce, we host a 12-week internship/co-op program to provide college students with hands-on  experience and networking opportunities.
Participants are often invited back to join one of   our development programs.
Learn more.
Learn more about talent development at Baxter.2018 HIGHLIGHTS 1 .64 million    training hours completed, approximately   32.8 hours per employee* to advance a culture of inclusionBaxter's eight Business  Resource Groups introducedpercentage points compared with 2017,  seven percentage points  above global average**Employee engagement  score increased I’m  All IN(cl usive) * These data do not represent all employee training, but do capture a large    portion of web-based training for most employees.
** Data are from Aon Hewitt.
The global average represents approximately 500   companies and approximately 11 million employees.Workplace   Culture Promote inclusion, diversity and  employee engagement BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Manager and Leadership Development During 2018, Baxter continued offering a range of  programs to more fully engage our managers and drive effective leadership across the company.
This includes leadership programs related to change management, quarterly calls about culture change  with Baxter’s CEO and curriculum for senior leaders  to improve coaching and strengthen presentation skills.
We also offer various leadership development  programs, including Leadership Challenge,  Situational Leadership, Managing the Matrix, Leading  for Results and Growing Emerging Leaders.
In 2018, 41% of senior leaders globally participated in one   or more of these leadership development programs.
In 2019, we will introduce a global manager development program focused on increasing  manager effectiveness.
Transforming Company Culture In 2017, Baxter engaged our managers in  conversations about decision-making, overcoming  bureaucracy and removing obstacles.
Building on that work, in 2018 we established four culture levers—speed, simplicity, courage and collaboration—which form the basis for our cultural transformation.
We’ve  embedded the levers into established processes  ranging from interviews to new employee orientations to monthly check-ins.
We've also introduced a new initiative that helps us address inefficient processes.
Using monthly pulse surveys, we evaluate the impact of these levers across the company to ensure we   are making progress.
Every year, we conduct a Best Place to Work survey.
In 2018, 82% of our employees worldwide participated.
We exceeded the cross-industry global average in all eight categories, including the new Culture category we added to measure our cultural transformation efforts.
Scores improved between one and three  percentage points in each of the categories   assessed, except for the Organization and Workplace categories, which maintained the same scores from 2017.
Survey results were shared broadly across Baxter, and teams created action plans to stimulate continuous improvement.
Culture Culture levers are the critical behaviors that will  – – 71% 68% help us achieve a winning culture Development Providing employees with the opportunity to grow and 65% 67% 68% 59% the resources to achieve their career aspirations Engagement An employee’s personal investment in the organization  66% 67% 69% 62% and motivation to contribute to its success Inclusion Ensuring everyone is able to contribute their best    61% 63% 66% 63%  and that the company has a diverse employee    population to drive innovation Leadership Growing leaders who inspire commitment and  62% 63% 66% 62% engagement, develop their teams and align goals Organization Driving productivity through goal alignment, agility  71% 72% 72% 62% and teamwork; ensuring clarity on direction and vision Rewards Providing competitive pay and benefits; attracting and  56% 59% 61% 46% retaining the best talent with our programs Workplace Providing a safe work environment;  69% 71% 71% 65% enabling employees to do their best work2018 Global  Average** 2017  * Scores indicate the percentage of survey participants who responded favorably to statements related to each of the categories listed.
** Data are from Aon Hewitt and represent approximately 500 companies and approximately 11 million employees.BAXTER 2018 BEST PLACE TO WORK SURVEY (CATEGORY SCORES )*BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Compensation and Benefits Baxter's total compensation philosophy is to provide  market-competitive pay and benefits globally while rewarding employees for strong individual and business performance.
Learn more about employee  compensation and benefits and executive compensation.
Global Inclusion and Diversity Baxter is committed to attracting, motivating,  developing and retaining an inclusive and diverse  workforce.
This drives innovation, creates trusted partnerships with customers, suppliers and community partners, and contributes to the success  and sustainability of our business.
During 2018, Baxter focused on driving inclusive leadership capabilities across the company and attracting, advancing  and engaging women and other underrepresented minority groups, including U.S. veterans, people with  disabilities and from various races/ethnicities, early  career professionals and the LGBTQ community.
Highlights of some of these activities include: Gender IQ Program    We expanded a leadership  development program for our global leadership team   to help them better understand gender biases  and blind spots, foster more productive working  relationships, positively leverage gender differences  and advance women within our company.
From the  program’s inception in 2017 through the end of 2018,  137 leaders have completed the program.
Sponsorship    We have a formal sponsorship   program to advance the careers of women and  underrepresented minorities (U.S.), through which  we encourage senior leaders to advocate for the advancement of high-performing, diverse talent.
Working Parents/Caregiver Program    We provide resources to help U.S. employees prepare for and  manage parenthood and caregiving as working  professionals.
We launched a new, easy-to-navigate  portal in 2018.
This one-stop resource includes  information on parental and maternity leave, childcare,  adoption assistance and workplace flexibility.
Mentoring for New Women Leaders    In 2018, we  formally launched our WoMentoring program, piloted  in 2017, to support women who were newly hired or  promoted into executive roles.Board Diversity We are committed to further increasing the diversity of our board of directors through strategic board  refreshment efforts.
The last three appointments  have been female directors.
As of May 2019, women  comprise 25% of our board of directors.
See  information regarding board diversity on page 5 of  Baxter’s 2019 Proxy Statement.
Global Inclusion Council Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council (GIC), chaired by a  member of our senior leadership team, is composed of  approximately 15 leaders from our businesses, regions and  functions.
These leaders serve as inclusion and diversity  champions, advocates and thought leaders across the  company.
The GIC is responsible for advocating and driving  our global inclusion and diversity priorities, as well as  developing and implementing local inclusion plans.
In 2018, our eight Business Resource Groups joined together to introduce an  all-employee inclusion pledge: I’m All IN(clusive).
Employees who make the pledge,  commit to advocating for and supporting all their co-workers and doing their part to create a culture of inclusion based on fairness and open and honest communication.Pay Equity Study During 2018, we worked with an independent firm  to conduct a pay equity study for our U.S. salaried workforce and found no significant pay differences  among men, women and ethnic minorities.
At Baxter,  we have equitable compensation practices, regardless  of gender or ethnicity.
This study confirmed that our managers are following our practices.
Global Inclusion and Diversity Focus Areas • Workforce    Recruit and build diverse and high-performing teams that are engaged and innovative.
• Workplace    Advance an inclusive culture,   where every employee feels valued, respected   and safe to be their authentic self.
• Communities    Cultivate strategic and diverse supplier and community partnerships.
• Marketplace    Consider the needs of customers   and their patients in all aspects of our business.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Building Cultural Competence Baxter provides employees with training, tools and  resources to build cultural awareness and competence,  and engage more authentically with each other.
Many  employees also work on global teams, enabling them to  build cultural competence through daily interactions.
We provide all people managers an instructor-led,  mandatory workshop called Power of Managing Inclusively  (available in 11 languages).
We also have an online toolkit  on valuing differences, which addresses the skills and  tools needed to create an inclusive and diverse culture.
Baxter works to embed awareness of unconscious bias throughout our company.
We prompt employees  to think through their biases in key processes, such as  talent assessment, succession planning, feedback and  hiring.
In 2019, we initiated a process called “Pause and  Discuss” during our hiring process.
This is a structured discussion to help us check for unconscious bias in the  selection decision before moving forward with an offer.
We also encourage employees to practice simple acts of inclusiveness in their day-to-day routines.
Business Resource Groups Baxter’s Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are an important component of creating an inclusive and diverse culture and advancing our priorities as a company.
Our BRGs are employee-run affinity groups that support the recruitment, retention, engagement and development of  diverse employees across Baxter.
Learn more.
Equal Opportunity As an equal opportunity employer, Baxter prohibits  employment discrimination or harassment of applicants, employees and third parties due to race, color, religion or religious creed, gender, national origin, ancestry, age,  physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic  information, marital status, sex, sexual orientation,  gender identity or expression, military or veteran status  or any other basis protected by law.
Workplace Flexibility Baxter recognizes the increasing demands on  employees to manage their personal and work lives, and  respects the need for different approaches to where,  how and when work gets done.
With tools and resources  available for employees and managers to navigate  ad hoc or ongoing flexible arrangements, employees  are encouraged to discuss with their managers what  options might be right for them and their jobs.
Learn more about workplace flexibility at Baxter.
Baxter Black Alliance ALN Asian Leadership  NetworkBaxterEnables BaxVetsBaxter Women LeadersPromote an Inclusive Workplace Baxter Equality Network Early Career ProfessionalsLatinos @ BaxterLatinos@BaxterBAXTER'S BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS Our BRGs celebrate the differences that make us unique.
Built on shared interests  and affinities, BRGs engage with diverse communities where we live and work.
BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction As a global healthcare company operating in more than  100 countries, we incorporate ethics and compliance into  everything we do.
Baxter’s success is based on personal  accountability for results and integrity.
Patients, doctors,  customers, regulators, investors, communities and  employees count on it.
We prioritize being honest and  fair, keeping promises, encouraging questions, valuing  discussion and following legal requirements.
Companywide Accountability Baxter has compliance committees for each country or cluster of countries where we operate to further  integrate ethics and compliance across our company  in strategic plans and day-to-day activities.
To ensure  the local implementation of our global ethics and  compliance program, the business lead of each country/ cluster holds mandatory quarterly meetings to facilitate  discussion among local leadership about key issues,  challenges and risks in their area.
This approach, in  conjunction with Baxter’s established codes, policies, trainings and monitoring and assessment practices,  enables the company to more effectively target specific  needs and drive ownership of and responsibility for  ethics and compliance worldwide.
Ethics and Compliance Training In 2018, 99% of employees completed annual Code of  Conduct training and affirmed that they have read the  Code and will report any violations to Baxter's Ethics  and Compliance Helpline.
Employees also complete  online courses relevant to their jobs, covering topics  addressed in Baxter’s Global Interactions Policy and  Third Party Program.
In addition to the anticorruption  content covered by the Code of Conduct and Global Interactions Policy training, our sales force participates in  business-led, interactive workshops/trainings related to  interactions with the medical community and government  officials, including discussion of real-life scenarios.
Third Party Program   Baxter is committed to conducting business with integrity  and in compliance with the law wherever we operate.
Our Third Party Program, policy, and training outline  the standards and processes used to review, retain and  monitor new and existing third parties for compliance  with our anticorruption expectations.
The program and  policy apply to Baxter employees, officers and directors  involved in the review, retention and monitoring of third  parties.
Through December 2018, approximately 4,500  targeted employees received training on the company’s DRIVING A CULTURE OF ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE CLIMATESGOVERNANCEHiring and PromotionsTone Third Party and Mergers and  Acquisitions Due DiligencePolicies and Procedures Counseling and TrainingInvestigations Controls,  Monitoring  and AssessmentsCULTURE corruption-related  enforcement actions 99% of employees  completed  annual Code of  Conduct training Favorable ratings achieved on employee  survey questions related to ethics culture  (within 1 and 2 percentage  points of top quartile)2018 HIGHLIGHTSEthics and  Compliance Drive a culture of integrity and the  highest ethical behavior BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Third Party Program, in addition to the anticorruption  content covered by Code of Conduct training.
We also  provide training to all new and existing third parties.
Compliance Assessments Baxter conducts risk audits and assessments at least  annually, and more often as needed, covering corruption,  among other topics.
Our Corporate Audit and Ethics and  Compliance functions select the locations of operations  to audit and assess based on factors such as size,  Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index,  the nature of interactions with the medical community and  third parties, industry trends, and the results of local and  regional compliance monitoring and investigations.
These  assessments may focus on relationships with third parties,  considering possible risk factors such as the nature of the  working arrangement with Baxter, adherence to contractual  terms and our Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter  Suppliers, the level of interaction with governments and  healthcare professionals, and training history and needs.
In 2018, we conducted four compliance assessments using Corporate Audit and Ethics and Compliance  resources, one in each of the following areas: Asia  Pacific; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Latin America;  and U.S./Canada.
Compliance Monitoring Baxter has deployed a data analytics-based monitoring  system in 15 key countries around the world, including  Brazil, China, India and Russia.
This system enables us  to perform near-real-time monitoring of metrics related  to travel, entertainment, and interactions with healthcare  professionals and government officials.
Transactions  identified as potentially problematic are reviewed by the  Ethics and Compliance investigation team as appropriate.
We will continue to expand the monitoring program across additional countries and examine risk metrics to identify  new areas of focus for our monitoring efforts.
Relationships with Healthcare  Professionals and Government Officials Baxter is committed to transparent reporting about  relationships with the medical community and government  officials.
This includes the continued implementation of  anticorruption programs to ensure that those relationships  and related payments are for necessary and genuine  services.
Our Global Interactions Policy outlines when and  how it is acceptable to provide members of the medical  community or government officials with any payment of  monetary value or other benefit.
We have local Contributions Management Committees, which act as independent entities to review and process contribution requests from nonprofit and for-profit healthcare organizations.
Ethics and Compliance Helpline In 2018, Baxter logged 503 reports from 33 countries into our Ethics and Compliance Helpline system and  closed 499.
Not all of the reports involved allegations  of misconduct.
Nevertheless, all were promptly triaged  and have either been addressed or are in the process  of being addressed.
Privacy and Data Protection We respect the privacy of our patients, employees and customers.
Baxter’s Global Privacy Policy defines our  privacy standards and guides our global operations  to follow similar controls for protecting personal  information.
During 2018, we focused on successful implementation of and compliance with the EU General  Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
We have established  a GDPR Policy and related training for employees.
Baxter's Information Protection Policy outlines our approach to information security and the standards we  require employees and suppliers to follow.
In response  to growing and changing cyber threats, we consistently  assess and strengthen our cyber defenses and response  capabilities.
The Global IT Security Operations team protects  Baxter against cyber attacks using a range of defenses  that secure our assets, reduce detection time and improve  recoverability.
We continue to raise security awareness with  all Baxter users through mandatory training and in-person  events.
The Enterprise Cybersecurity and Information  Council oversees efforts in this area.Work Environment/Employee Relations 57% Manufacturing/EHS&S/R&D/Regulatory/Quality  14% Interactions with Government Officials  Including HCPs/HCOs (outside the U.S.) 10% Asset or Information Misuse or  Misappropriation/Confidential Data 5% Marketing and Sales 5% Financial Management and Reporting 4% Competitive Practices 3% Conflict of Interest 3% Payments/Gifts/Entertainment with  0%HCPs/HCOs (U.S.)% of total* Reports Closed by CategoryITEMS REPORTED TO THE ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE  HELPLINE IN * Segment s add up to more than 100%, due to rounding.
The category Payments/Gifts/ Entertainment with HCPs/HCOs (U.S.) had two reports closed, which rounded to 0%.
“HCPs” are healthcare professionals.
“HCOs” are healthcare organizations.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21As a part of Baxter’s aspiration to be a Best Place to  Work, we provide a safe workplace and the resources  needed to maintain and improve health and wellness.
We track and evaluate each major incident that occurs  in our workplace to fully understand root causes  and prevent recurrence.
The Environmental, Health,  Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) organization reports employee safety performance to senior leadership and  manufacturing and supply chain management weekly.
EHS&S also communicates performance to Baxter's board of directors.
Performance In 2018, we achieved Baxter's lowest ever recordable case rate, a decrease of 9% from the prior year.
We also improved our cases with days lost rate by 20% and our days lost rate by 20% compared with 2017.
Key contributors to overall improvement included:  • Further engagement of employees in ongoing   hazard identification prior to events occurring • Continued visibility to all recordable injuries   through weekly management reporting and  Recordable Roundtable calls • Increased management engagement in   safety performance • Accountability systems for root cause analysis   and corrective action plans 2016 2017 Days Lost Rate  3.60 3.62 2.Restricted Days Rate  14.53 8.69 6.
* See the Baxter Data Summary for descriptions of metrics and additional detail.03691215 2016 2017 Recordable Case Rate  0.62 0.45 0.Cases with Days Lost Rate  0.14 0.10 0.
* See the Baxter Data Summary for descriptions of metrics and additional detail.0.000.250.500.751.9%* our lowest everRecordable case rate 100% of campuses with 25  or more employees were  smoke-free**20%Cases with  days lost rate * * Compared with ** In countries where smoke-free status is allowed by law2018 HIGHLIGHTSEmployee Health  and Safety Achieve a zero-harm workplace and  improve employee well-being Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content in this section.
RECORDABLE CASE RATE AND CASES WITH DAYS LOST RATE DAYS LOST RATE AND RESTRICTED DAYS RATE VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Injuries and Major Incidents We regularly evaluate our main sources of work- related injuries to identify trends and opportunities   for improvement.
When a major incident occurs at Baxter, facility  management conducts an evaluation and follows formal processes and reporting mechanisms to share knowledge companywide and prevent recurrence.
Major incidents are defined as those that result in an employee or contractor being hospitalized overnight (for more than observation),  sustaining an amputation or dying.
Seven major incidents occurred at Baxter in 2018,  the same as in 2017.
Two of those were fatalities, one involving a contractor.
Enhancing Safety Culture In 2018, based on a review of historical performance trends, we further enhanced Baxter's safety culture.
We accomplished this through detailed safety action plans for targeted facilities, heightened oversight of case reporting (with recordkeeping audits), completion  of corrective and preventive actions following major  injuries, and initiatives aimed at personalizing the value of safety for our employees.
Focused Injury- and Illness-   Reduction Strategies Injury and illness metrics and internal EHS&S audits  provide focus for Baxter's safety, occupational   health and industrial hygiene efforts.
We continue to  target ergonomics and slips, trips and falls, two of   the primary sources of injury at the company.Emphasis on High-Hazard Sources During 2018, Baxter continued to categorize all  EHS&S incidents by potential severity.
We worked to determine the root causes of incidents, correct  them and prevent recurrence.
We continued our  Safety Alert system to enhance learning from major incidents.
The system requires applicable sites to verify awareness of occurrences, associated risks   and any needed remediation.
Health and Wellness Program  Management and Initiatives Baxter’s occupational health function, in partnership  with Human Resources and Global Communications, develops health and wellness strategies for the  company.
A global team of diverse health professionals  and volunteers, known as Local Champions, helps refine and implement these approaches and define priorities.
BeWell@Baxter Healthy employees are more engaged and productive and less vulnerable to safety incidents and  injuries.
Through BeWell@Baxter,  our global employee health and wellness effort, we  strive to create a culture that raises awareness of and promotes work-related and personal health.
The cornerstone of BeWell@Baxter is the Personal  Wellness Profile, an online health risk assessment that helps employees understand how lifestyle choices, family history and other factors influence health and related risks.
We use this data to focus our health promotion program on areas of highest health risk for  employees.
As of the end of 2018, 36% of employees worldwide had completed a Personal Wellness Profile.
In 2018, more than 11,500 employees logged more than 230,000 hours of exercise as part of the BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge, a 15% increase in hours compared with 2017.
In addition, 54% of facilities worldwide took part in Healthy Eating Month.
Other Programs and Initiatives Baxter’s occupational health team also works to continually improve the company’s performance with the following programs and initiatives:  Flu vaccinations     In 2018, we offered free seasonal  flu vaccinations to all employees working at sites  with 25 or more employees; nearly 12,700 employees  worldwide received vaccinations through this program.
Smoke-free workplaces    In 2018, in countries where smoke-free status is allowed by law, 100% of  campuses with 25 or more employees were smoke- free, up from 93% in 2017.
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  FOR MORE DETAIL.
Baxter employees in Sweden participating in a local 10K race during the annual  BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge held every May.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23At Baxter, we are committed to driving sustainability  throughout our global manufacturing operations.1  We  strive to use energy, water and raw materials efficiently,  while reducing waste and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
This improves environmental performance while saving money and demonstrating environmental leadership.
Our Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability  (EHS&S) vision is to achieve a sustainable enterprise that creates stakeholder value by advancing superior  environmental stewardship, optimum employee health  and well-being, and a zero-harm workplace.
Baxter’s EHS&S Policy outlines our commitments within our  operations and across the value chain.
Our EHS&S  governance structure helps us achieve our goals and create long-term business value.
We follow a management-systems approach guided by  our global EHS&S requirements.
We apply the ISO 14001 standard to manage our environmental aspects and  the OHSAS 18001 standard to manage our health and  safety hazards and risks.
As of year-end 2018, 59 Baxter locations, including 43 of our manufacturing sites, met  the requirements of ISO 14001.
Also, in 2018, 45 sites  were certified to OHSAS 18001.
Baxter’s EHS&S audit program helps to ensure that our facilities have programs that satisfy applicable  regulatory requirements and are consistent with our  EHS&S requirements, objectives and goals.
In 2018,   we conducted EHS&S audits at 14 facilities.
In 2018, we received nine environmental Notices of Violation (NOVs).
We paid a $4,500 fine related to one of  those NOVs. The other eight NOVs did not result in a fine.
During 2018, we also paid a $75,000 fine related to three NOVs from 2016.
We settled four health and safety NOVs  during the year and paid $7,130 in health and safety fines.7% reduction in energy use* 10% reduction in total waste*7% reduction in water consumption* 14% reduction in  absolute greenhouse     gas emissions** * Compared with 2015  and indexed to revenue ** Compared with 20152018 HIGHLIGHTSOperations Reduce environmental footprint  through increased efficiency and  resource conservation 600,000650,000700,000750,000-15%-10%-5%0%5% 2016 2017 (baseline) (baseline)2016 2017 Metric Tons CO2e% Change, Indexed to Revenue GHG Emissions2020 Goals: -15% 2020 Goal: -10%Energy Use Water Use Waste Generation -15%-10%-5%0%PROGRESS TOWARD 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the  content in this section.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Energy   Using energy effectively enhances business efficiency,  conserves natural resources and improves environmental  performance.
Reducing fossil fuel combustion decreases  GHG emissions, improves air quality and decreases fine  particulates that contribute to adverse health effects.
Baxter has a goal to reduce total energy use by 15%  indexed to revenue by 2020, from a 2015 baseline.
In 2018, we used 9,473 trillion joules of energy—7%  less than in 2015, indexed to revenue.
This includes  electricity, fuel and purchased steam used by Baxter- managed and Baxter-operated facilities; it excludes  energy related to company-operated vehicles.
In 2018, we increased absolute energy use by 3% compared with 2017, due mainly to facility expansions  and production increases.
During that period, energy use indexed to revenue decreased by 2%.Energy is one of our most significant manufacturing costs,  so energy conservation is important to our business.
Our energy costs rose 3% between 2017 and 2018, up $4.8 million, due to increased energy use for production.
Site-specific energy assessments identify opportunities  to conserve energy and to apply and share new  technologies and best practices across the company.
In 2018, we performed energy assessments at six facilities worldwide.
From those, we identified 113 potential energy conservation projects, with possible annual savings of $3 million.
Sites determine which  projects to implement based on feasibility and return  on investment.
Facility personnel also uncover possible energy conservation projects.
During 2018, we implemented 190 energy conservation  projects that saved more than $4.2 million and 231 trillion joules of energy on an annual basis, avoiding more than 19,700 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) of GHG emissions.
Responsible energy procurement is integral to our GHG emissions reduction strategy.
In 2018, at manufacturing sites in Europe, 96.4% of the total electricity procured was from renewable power.
We have operated a Lean Energy Program for our main  manufacturing facilities since 2007.
It includes four sets of Lean Energy standards—Gold, Silver, Bronze and Prerequisite—defining 14 to 35 requirements a facility must meet at each level, with a focus on process and system energy efficiency.
By year-end 2018, 7 sites achieved Gold status, 18 achieved Silver, 35 achieved Bronze, and 45 achieved Prerequisite.The Baxter global energy program began to apply the ISO 50001 standard in 2014 to its facility-level energy management systems.
By the end of 2018, 11 company locations met relevant requirements under an ISO 50001 Group Certificate, as verified by an accredited third party.
Water and Wastewater Water issues continue to grow in importance worldwide.
Although these concerns are global, they must be addressed at the local and regional levels.
Baxter works to better understand the impacts of our water use across the value chain and implements conservation and  efficiency projects at our manufacturing facilities.
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY   AND VALUE CHAIN ENERGY  USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS  TABLE  FOR MORE DETAIL.Gold SilverBronzePrerequisite2018 BAXTER LEAN ENERGY PROGRAM ACHIEVEMENTS 2018 ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS projects implementedCO 2e of GHG emissions avoided 19 ,700savings during 2018$4.trillion joules million+ metric tons231BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Baxter has a goal to reduce total water use by 15%  indexed to revenue by 2020, from a 2015 baseline.
We  reduced water consumption by 7% indexed to revenue  from 2015 to 2018.
During 2018, we used approximately 14 million cubic  meters of water.2 This represents an increase in water  usage of 3% in absolute terms and a 2% decrease  indexed to revenue, compared with 2017.
We consider several factors to identify water use  reduction opportunities and possible water conservation  projects at sites, including total water used, water usage  efficiency, and water cost and availability.
Due to the strong link between energy use and water processing,  optimizing water systems remains a key focus of our  facility energy assessments.
Additionally, we integrate  lean manufacturing principles and tools such as value  stream mapping 3 with water management to help  facilities identify areas for additional conservation.
While we have implemented numerous water reduction projects to date, we anticipate potential challenges  with further decreases due to business growth and  manufacturing changes.
During 2018, our manufacturing facility in Marion (North Cove), North Carolina, Baxter's largest water  user, reduced total water use by 73,000 cubic meters  compared with 2017.
We attribute this reduction to  improvements in production efficiency.
Water issues vary significantly by location.
In 2016, we  applied the World Business Council for Sustainable   Development Global Water Tool to evaluate the availability of renewable water supply at our 53 largest  water-use locations for which the tool provided data.
These locations represented 95% of our total water  use.
In 2018, facility water use in water-stressed,  water-scarce and extreme water-scarcity areas combined increased by 3% in absolute terms and decreased 2% indexed to revenue compared with  2017.
We attribute the absolute increase to production  increases at some sites located in water-scarce areas.
Wastewater Managing wastewater discharged from Baxter’s production operations is one of our most significant  environmental priorities.
In 2018, six of our nine self- reported environmental incidents were exceedances of  permitted wastewater discharge limits.
None of those  items resulted in a fine.
To address existing wastewater compliance issues globally and to prepare for potential future ones,  we pursue an aggressive approach to wastewater  compliance, evaluation and risk mitigation.
Based on  recent experience, we have implemented a systematic wastewater risk management program that proactively identifies emerging issues.
This involves a holistic  review of major manufacturing locations including the  following activities: • Evaluate effectiveness of facility change management  processes used to assess possible impacts to wastewater generation and compliance • Review wastewater compliance history and recent data to identify possible trends and areas of concern • Verify the effectiveness of procedures used to monitor compliance with wastewater permit conditions and methods used to investigate and remedy causes of noncompliant wastewater discharges • Use five-year production forecasts to compare wastewater treatment capacity and capabilities with anticipated production changes • Gauge employee awareness of wastewater operations and roles in ensuring compliance Waste Baxter identifies leading waste reduction opportunities  based on our highest-volume waste streams, facilities  that produce the most waste and sites with strong  potential to improve, among other factors.
Facilities  measure waste at the point of generation to rapidly  identify significant sources.
We track and analyze waste  data from each major facility to assess progress toward  waste reduction goals and identify ways to improve  processes that generate waste.
These and other  activities reduce expenses related to raw materials use, waste handling and disposal.
Extreme  Water Water Water Country Stressed Scarce Scarcity Australia  2  Belgium  1  China   Dominican Republic    Germany 4   Mexico 1 1 Philippines 1   Singapore 1   Sweden  1  United Kingdom  1 United States 1  1BAXTER SITES IN LOCATIONS WITH WATER RISK VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction During 2018, our operations generated 69,900 metric  tons of total waste, up 1% from 2015 in absolute terms and down 10% indexed to revenue.
Our operations generated 62,800 metric tons of nonhazardous waste during 2018, flat in absolute terms and a 5% decrease indexed to revenue, compared with 2017.
We attribute this change to waste reduction initiatives implemented and efficiency improvements at some of our largest manufacturing facilities.
Reducing plastic waste and increasing recycling is a  priority; plastic scrap from manufacturing is our largest waste stream, representing roughly one-third of our nonhazardous waste.
We also innovate to mitigate the environmental impact of product packaging.
Read more in Product Innovation.
Regulated waste 5 represents 10% of Baxter’s total waste.
During 2018, our operations generated 7,100 metric tons  of regulated waste, 12% less in absolute terms than in 2017, and 17% less indexed to revenue.
This decrease was due to improvements in regulated waste material handling.
For example, a project implemented at our Hechingen, Germany, facility reduced regulated waste by a total of 1,550 metric tons during 2017 and 2018.
Adding a drum dryer enabled the site to remove and reuse the hazardous liquid portion from the waste and then recycle the remaining content.
In 2018, we recycled 80% of nonhazardous waste and  51% of regulated waste for an overall recycling rate of 77%.
Recycling at Baxter generated nearly $5.0 million in net income in 2018.
We have a goal to pursue zero waste-to-landfill by achieving a landfill diversion rate of 95% or higher at all manufacturing locations by 2020.
In 2018, 7   manufacturing sites (nearly 40% of the total) and one R&D facility achieved or exceeded this rate.
We are working with outside experts to accelerate progress   in the coming years.
Our Toongabbie, Australia, manufacturing facility  improved waste diversion from landfill from 77% to 94% from 2017 to 2018.
The team did this by implementing a series of projects, including improved waste segregation, enhanced mixed plastics recycling using new technology and food waste composting.
GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain   Climate change is among the most pressing global challenges facing the world today, posing risks for humans and natural ecosystems.Multinational companies can help address climate change by understanding their impacts across the value chain and decreasing GHG emissions.
These are core elements of Baxter’s sustainability efforts.
We began reporting our Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain Scope 3 (see descriptions in table above) GHG emissions in 1997 and (% of 2018 Total) Thousand Metric  Tons CO2e  2017 2018 2018% of Total Upstream (Scope 3)       Purchased Goods and Services 745 785 15% Capital Goods 79 85 2% Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities  130 151 3% Upstream Transportation and Distribution  453 517 10% Waste Generated in Operations 13 11 0% Business Travel 52 54 1% Employee Commuting 30 29 1% Upstream Leased Assets 0 0 0% Baxter Operations (Scope 1 and 2)       Facility/Vehicle Fuel Usage and Refrigerant  301 307 6% Losses (Scope 1)  Purchased Energy (Scope 2) 302 314 6% Downstream (Scope 3)       Downstream Transportation and Distribution  122 132 3% Processing of Sold Product s 15 17 0% Use of Sold Products 2,369 2,658 51% End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products 157 171 3%Downstream Leased Asset s 0 0 0% Franchises 0 0 0% Investments 0 0 0% Total 4,768 5,231 100%BAXTER’S GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOOTPRINT 2018 RECYCLING AT BAXTER regulated waste  recycled60%51% nonhazardous  waste  recycled80% 76%77% overall  recycling rate$5.million net income generated VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct  Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction contributed to the development of the initial version of  the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
See our Climate Change &  Energy position statement.
We estimate our 2018 GHG emissions footprint (Scope 1,  2 and 3) at 5.2 million metric tons CO2e,8 up 10% from the  prior year.
The main factor contributing to this increase  was GHG emissions associated with the increased sales  and production of certain products in 2018.
Since 2015, we have offset GHG emissions related to global business travel with United Airlines through  the CarbonChoice program.
During 2018, this included  3,900 metric tons CO 2e offset on Baxter’s behalf  through the Asorpar Colombian Reforestation project, a Verified Carbon Standard/Climate, Community &  Biodiversity Standards project.
GHG Emissions from Operations  Baxter has a goal to reduce absolute GHG emissions from operations by 10% by 2020, compared with  2015.
Through 2018, we reduced GHG emissions from  operations by 14%, exceeding our goal.
Total net  emissions from operations equaled 621,000 metric tons  CO 2e in 2018, including a subtraction of 176,500 metric  tons CO2e of carbon credits.
Reduction of energy use is vital to our sustainability strategy, as energy use accounts for 99% of Baxter's  GHG emissions from operations.
In 2018, Baxter facilities  completed 190 energy-conservation projects that reduced  annual GHG emissions by more than 19,700 metric tons  CO 2e, equivalent to about 3% of our net GHG emissions from operations during the year.
Other tactics to decrease GHG emissions included fuel switching, cogeneration,  onsite renewable energy systems, renewable power  procurement and green buildings.
By the end of 2018, 29% of our energy use for operations was from renewable sources; biomass fuel for boilers  at two of our locations 9 accounted for 10%, and the  renewable energy component of purchased electricity and renewable energy certificates together represented  19%.
On-site geothermal, solar photovoltaic and solar  hot water systems contributed a small amount.Baxter’s energy procurement team works to  provide sustainable and economical energy to all manufacturing sites.
Globally in 2018, we purchased  more than 380,000 MWh of electricity generated from  100% certified renewable power, a 10% increase from 2017; this included all electricity purchased in Illinois.
We were recognized as  the 32nd largest corporate  purchaser of renewable energy in the United States during  the year.
10 Since 2007, we have maintained carbon  neutrality at our headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, through electricity generated from certified renewable  energy sources.
We offset facility-related emissions  from purchased electricity.
During 2018, we sourced about 235,000 MWh of 100%  renewable electricity for our European manufacturing  sites.
This represented 96.4% of total electricity for  manufacturing in the region.
In most cases, savings from our energy sourcing strategy in Europe finance the premium for green electricity contracts.
Air Emissions Since 2015, we have reduced toxic air emissions by 9% indexed to revenue.
Due to reductions realized under an aggressive air toxics program initiated in 1988, we  did not establish a goal in this area in 2015, instead  focusing our environmental goals on other material areas.
We continue to monitor our air emissions and support facility-led initiatives in this area.020406080Thousand Metric Tons CO2eMetric Tons CO2e per Million Dollars of Sales  2016 2017 North America 260 250       Latin America 70 69       EMEA 189 125       Asia Pacific 168 159       Metric tons CO2e per 68 57 Million Dollars of Sales  The regional breakdown of the data included in this graph reflects the structure of the  Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) organization and the categorization  of data in the EHS&S global information management system through 2018.
The sum of the 2016 segments differs slightly from the 2016 total stated in the Baxter Operations Total line of  the Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions table, due to rounding.*GHG EMISSIONS FROM BAXTER OPERATIONS* VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY   AND VALUE CHAIN ENERGY  USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS  TABLE  FOR MORE DETAIL.
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY   AND VALUE CHAIN ENERGY  USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS TABLE  FOR MORE DETAIL.EPA Green  Power Partner BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Baxter's global supply chain extends from the producers of  the raw materials we use in manufacturing to the patients  and healthcare providers that use our products.
We are  committed to building and driving a responsible supply chain.
Collaboration is central to our approach, and we engage our  suppliers on key corporate responsibility issues, including human rights, business ethics, labor practices, health and  safety, and environmental performance.
We also work to  mitigate environmental impacts from product transport.
Responsible Procurement Baxter works to support sustainable practices within and across our supply chain.
In addition to traditional  considerations, such as price and quality, we integrate  social and environmental criteria into our requests for proposal and supplier contract templates.
Protecting Human Rights As outlined in Baxter's Global Human Rights Policy , we  respect human rights, dignity and the diverse contributions  of all individuals.
We updated our policy in 2018 to provide  more information about external organizations we  collaborate with on human rights; further articulate our  commitment to labor issues such as child and forced labor;  and signal our intent to conduct human rights training and  assessments and report on progress.
Fostering human rights takes many forms at Baxter and is reflected in our policies and initiatives in areas including  employment practices, privacy, safety, supply chain,  ethical conduct and access to healthcare.
We work to ensure that our suppliers share Baxter’s high standards.
In 2018, our Supplier Diversity and Sustainability team  completed SA8000 Introduction and Basic Auditor Training through Social Accountability International and received the related certification.
This education will aid our work   to identify areas of concern related to forced and child  labor during our supplier audits.
In certain countries or areas we are required to  demonstrate transparency on our global supply chain  due diligence through publicly available statements.
In  addition to our Global Human Rights Policy, Baxter’s UK Modern Slavery Statement declares our commitments  and approach to ensuring that our local  operations and  global supply chain are free from modern slavery practices,  including child labor, forced and bonded labor and human trafficking.
We also have a position statement related to the  California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 .
In addition, for some products sold in the UK, we have implemented a Labor Standards Assurance System  (LSAS).
It includes a UK LSAS Policy , a relevant labor  standards supply chain risk assessment, management  commitment, employee awareness training and key  performance indicators.
This management system provides us with a clear  framework to approach human rights and labor standards  and improves our ability to manage supply chain risks in  these areas.
In 2018, Baxter’s LSAS underwent an audit to successfully maintain Level 2 compliance with the UK  National Health Service Supply Chain.
We have a cross- functional team that maintains our LSAS program and integrates it with our supplier sustainability work.
In addition,  we participated in a multi-stakeholder group to establish  LSAS best practices for the medical device industry.
Managing Procurement Risks Baxter takes a risk-based approach to managing corporate responsibility issues in our supply chain.
Our  Supplier Quality Standards and Ethics and Compliance  Standards for Baxter Suppliers outline expectations and requirements for all of our suppliers.
2018 HIGHLIGHTS 85% of participating suppliers  earned Advanced or Moderate  scores on our Supplier  Corporate Responsibility Survey 6.1% of relevant spending  during the year*Purchases with  diverse suppliers  equaled 100% of UPS shipping outside  the United States offset  using carbon credits** * Includes spending with women-owned businesses and minority-owned    businesses.
Spending with suppliers that qualify for both categories is   included in the total for each category.
United States and Puerto Rico.
Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).
** As of December 2018Responsible  Procurement and  Logistics Implement world-class sustainability  practices with key partners Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the  content in this section.
BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 28BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction We integrate supplier sustainability into our overall  supplier management and assessment processes.
In  2018, we developed a robust tool to enable comprehensive  assessment of key suppliers (representing 70% of  Baxter’s supplier spend) for cost, delivery, quality and risk, including corporate social responsibility performance.
Scores from our annual Supplier Corporate Responsibility  Survey feed directly into this assessment.
As part of this  process we also examine the financial risk of suppliers to  ensure we don’t have any disruptions in supply.
We work  with suppliers who receive low scores on this assessment  to develop continuous improvement plans, which we  review regularly to monitor progress.
Using a trusted third-party service, we receive notifications  if there are disruptions in areas of the world where our  suppliers are located.
Such disruptions could include natural disasters, fires, major weather events or  geopolitical activity.
Using this information, we’re able   to respond quickly to ensure supply continuity.
Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey Baxter conducts an annual Supplier Corporate Responsibility  Survey to better understand the programs and performance  of our suppliers and drive continuous improvement.
In 2018 and early 2019, we engaged EcoVadis to use its sustainability ratings platform to survey our supplier base and validate responses in the areas of environment, labor and human rights, ethics, and sustainable procurement.
Ninety-one suppliers participated.
Of those, 46% were  from Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); 40% from  the Americas; and 14% from Asia Pacific (APAC).
As illustrated in the table directly below, participating  suppliers outperformed the cross-industry average by a wide margin.
Suppliers receive detailed scorecards on their corporate responsibility management practices, including information about strengths and benchmark  comparisons, as well as actionable improvement areas.
Supplier Audits Baxter’s Supplier Sustainability team works with our  Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability team to  conduct supplier audits.
The audit format aligns with the  Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)  protocol.
PSCI is a healthcare industry group focused on responsible  procurement, risk mitigation and supplier capability building.
The PSCI protocol covers ethics; labor; environment, health  and safety; and related management systems.
From the launch of our supplier audit program in 2016  through the end of 2018, we conducted nine supplier  sustainability audits: one in APAC, two in EMEA and six  in the Americas.
To drive continuous improvement and help suppliers advance their sustainability programs,   we work with suppliers to develop corrective action  plans for identified nonconformances.
• Supplier Quality Standards • Ethics and Compliance Standards   for Baxter Suppliers • Global Human Rights Policy• UK Labor Standards Assurance System • Identify top suppliers by annual spend• Assess comparative risk based on     geographic location, commodity type    and other factors • Conduct Supplier Corporate      Responsibility Survey • Conduct supplier audits  • Develop and confirm progress on     corrective action plansCommunicate  clear policies and standards Identify and  prioritize suppliers based on risk  Use established  processes and metrics  to monitor progress Regularly disclose  performance and highlight progress• Supplier Corporate Responsibility     Survey report card • Annual Corporate Responsibility Report• Investor surveys• Ratings and rankingsEstablish Policies Assess Risk Monitor and Manage Performance Report PerformanceSUPPLY CHAIN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  Advanced Moderate Partial Insufficient Environment 40% 45% 12% 2% Labor and  23% 55% 21% 1%Human Rights Ethics 17% 55% 26% 1% Sustainable  18% 40% 40% 2%ProcurementOverall 25% 60% 14% 1% Cross-Industry  3% 38% 55% 3% Average * The performance categories presented in this table align with the EcoVadis methodology.
“Advanced”  indicates structured and proactive corporate responsibility (CR) approach;  policies and tangible actions on major topics with significant CR reporting.
“Moderate”  indicates structured and proactive CR approach; policies and tangible actions on major topics with basic CR reporting.
“ Partial ” indicates no structured CR approach; few tangible  actions on selected topics; certifications related to sites and/or products are only partial.
“Insufficient ” indicates no engagements or tangible actions regarding CR.
Evidence in  certain cases of misconduct (e.g. pollution, corruption).SUMMARY OF SUPPLIER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY   SURVEY SCORES, 2018 * % of Participating Suppliers  Critical Findings Other Findings Ethics 0 Labor 1 Environment 1 Health and Safety** 5 Management Systems 2 Total 9  *  "Critical findings" are high risk and require immediate corrective action by the supplier to      protect human life, employee health or the environment.
"Other findings" are low risk and      require corrective action by the supplier within an appropriate period of time.
* *These findings are primarily related to areas for continuous improvement such as personal     protection equipment, production area machine guarding, fire safety and others.*  “Critical findings ” are high risk and require immediate corrective action by the supplier to    pr otect human life, employee health or the environment.
“Other findings ” are low risk    and r equire corrective action by the supplier within an appropriate period of time.
** These findings are primarily related to areas for continuous improvement such as     per sonal protection equipment, production area machine guarding, fire safety and others.NONCONFORMANCES IDENTIFIED IN SUPPLIER AUDITS,   2016-2018 *BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Supplier Diversity Baxter develops mutually beneficial relationships with  small and diverse suppliers, and continually works to  increase the diversity of our supplier base.
We spent $378 million in 2018 with small suppliers in  the United States and Puerto Rico, up 9% compared  with 2017.
In those locations, we spent $80 million  with women-owned businesses and $94 million  with minority-owned firms.
Veteran-owned, service- disabled-veteran-owned, small disadvantaged and  HUBZone-certified businesses represented $12.8  million, $1.3 million, $25.3 million and $1.1 million   of Baxter’s spending, respectively.We also work to develop the capability of diverse suppliers through targeted matchmaker conferences and  networking events.
In 2018, we hosted our third annual  Supplier Diversity Fair at our corporate headquarters.
The half-day networking event educated small, minority- owned, women-owned and other diverse business  enterprises on best practices for conducting business  with Baxter.
In addition, we have sponsored a certified minority supplier to attend the National Minority Supplier Development Council’s (NMSDC) Advanced Management  Education Program since 2014.
The Puerto Rico Minority Supplier Development Council  awarded Baxter the 2018 Supplier for Success Award.
The award recognized our commitment to diversity  and our efforts to encourage small and diverse-owned  businesses to certify and/or register with the Small  Business Administration.
We accomplished this through  a series of targeted communications and a HUBZone  and minority certification workshop we held at our  Guayama, Puerto Rico, facility.
We maintain corporate memberships with the NMSDC,  the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce,  Diversity Alliance for Science, and Disability:IN, formerly  the U.S. Business Leadership Network.
We also support  diversity through local business partners including  the Chicago Minority Supplier Development Council,  Women’s Business Development Center, Chicago  United and Chicagoland Business Leadership Network.
During 2018, Baxter was elected to the NMSDC Board of  Directors.
Our presence on the Board provides greater visibility to further expand our commitment to diversity.
Learn more about supplier diversity at Baxter.Industry Collaboration Baxter collaborates with other companies and organizations  within the healthcare industry to enhance our influence, improve efficiency and advance responsible procurement.
We are a member of PSCI, and we encourage our suppliers to participate in the PSCI supply chain audit program and leverage other PSCI capability-building opportunities.
In addition, we take part in the PSCI Supplier Capability  Building Committee and several subcommitties, including the Human Rights and Labor subcommittee.
Through this  work, we help to establish industrywide best practices,  including those related to management systems, human rights/labor, and ethics and compliance in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
In 2018,   we began serving on the PSCI advisory panel.
As a corporate member of the Sustainable Purchasing   Leadership Council, we work to advance the organization’s  mission of supporting and recognizing purchasing  leadership that accelerates the transition to a prosperous  and sustainable future.
In 2018, we continued to  collaborate with other member organizations to establish  best practices for supplier development and help  suppliers advance sustainability within their companies.
Our efforts to establish a secure supply chain include  participating in programs such as the Customs Trade  Partnership Against Terrorism Program (CTPAT), which  supports a secure and reliable supply of lifesaving medical products.
This includes shipments of raw materials and finished products both to and from various Baxter  locations, foreign suppliers, distributors and customers.
In 2018, CTPAT validated our Cuernavaca, Mexico, site with a positive report indicating we are meeting all CTPAT standards.
As an importer and exporter, Baxter has been recognized as a Tier III Partner (the highest level possible)  in the program since 2011.
$378  million to small businesses, up  9% compared with 2017$80  million  to women- owned  businesses$94  million  to minority- owned  businesses  Our 2018 Supplier Diversity Fair featured renowned minority business speaker and  Dartmouth College Professor Leonard Greenhalgh, PhD.
VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Green Logistics Baxter transports more than 5 million metric tons of  raw materials and finished goods each year throughout our global supply chain, primarily in partnership with third-party vendors and carriers.
Our worldwide greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from product transport totaled 516,700 metric tons CO 2e   in 2018.
This is equivalent to 98 kilograms CO2e per  metric ton of products transported, an 8% increase from 2017.
This increase was primarily due to a significant increase in the emission factors used to calculate  ground transport emissions outside of Europe in 2018.
2Baxter manufactures Mini-Bag and Mini-Bag Plus  (small volume parenterals) Container Systems in Puerto  Rico.
Following the destruction caused by Hurricane  Maria in 2017, we took steps to support product supply for the U.S. market by activating targeted recovery  strategies across our global manufacturing network.
For instance, we worked with U.S. Food and Drug Administration to secure regulatory discretion for the  temporary special importation of certain products from  our facilities in other countries.
These efforts increased our air transport emissions in 2017 and early 2018.
Baxter’s approach to improving efficiency and decreasing GHG emissions from product transport includes: Technology innovation    We collaborate with Integra2 to use ECO vehicles at our distribution center in Valencia,  Spain.
Data from a limited rollout in the immediate  area shows that the vehicles, which use 70% gasoil and 30% gas, reduced CO 2 emissions by 15% and nitrogen  oxide emissions and particulates by 50%.
Based on this  successful pilot, which accounts for 4.5% of the total  weight we ship in Spain, we are working to deploy ECO vehicles more broadly.
In Puerto Rico, we work with  ocean carriers that are switching to ships powered by  liquefied natural gas (LNG), with a small amount of low-sulfur diesel used for low-speed maneuverability  and as back-up fuel.
Using LNG emits almost no sulfur  oxide or particulate matter emissions, 90% less nitrogen oxide emissions, and 20–25% less CO 2 emissions.Intermodal transport    Combining multiple transportation modes for a single shipment—for  example, converting road to rail for parts of a route— can decrease costs and overall GHG emissions.
Although Hurricane Maria disrupted our ability to take full advantage of intermodal transport options in the  Caribbean during 2017 and 2018, we have continued to make strides elsewhere.
To replace air freight with ocean and rail wherever possible, we have implemented an air approval process across the company, which requires all large, unplanned shipments to receive senior manager approval.
GHG emissions from air transport decreased by 23% in 2018 compared with the prior year, despite  increased air shipments in early 2018 associated with  the disruption caused by Hurricane Maria.
In EMEA, we continued converting road freight to rail.
Optimizing the distribution network     The use of  innovative technologies, such as transport management  systems and route optimization tools, saves time and money while improving environmental performance.
We have implemented an ocean export consolidation center  for the majority of our EMEA export shipments.
The  center combines shipments from different warehouse locations in Europe and optimizes loads so that containers are less likely to be shipped partially full.
This reduces the total number of containers shipped and saves money while increasing supply frequency.
During 2018, we increased the number of shipping lanes to 39 (up from 13 in 2017) and avoided the use of 204 ocean containers that we would have shipped if  we didn’t have the consolidation center (up from 125  containers avoided in 2017).
Environmentally responsible partnerships    Baxter is one of a select number of companies that participate in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's SmartWay program as both a Carrier and Shipper Partner.
As of December 2018, we are using carbon credits to offset   all of our UPS shipping outside of the United States.0100,000200,000300,000400,000500,000600,000Metric Tons CO2e Air OceanRailRoad  2017 201823% 14% 3% 60%16% 12% 4% 68%WORLDWIDE GHG EMISSIONS FROM PRODUCT TRANSPORT BY MODE VIEW THE DATA SUMMARY  FOR MORE DETAIL.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Guided by our mission and inspired by the millions of  patients and caregivers that rely on our products, we  are dedicated to nurturing, developing and delivering innovative healthcare solutions.
We employ Baxter’s leading portfolio of critical care, nutrition, renal, hospital and surgical products to help solve pressing healthcare  challenges and expand access to healthcare worldwide.
Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation invest in new collaborations and partnerships with world-renowned institutions, deploying our products, product donations and grants globally.
Collaborating to Improve Healthcare Through partnerships and stakeholder engagement, Baxter works to tackle global health challenges and expand the availability of our treatments, strengthen health systems and support public health worldwide.
Our work includes educating patients, training physicians and healthcare professionals, and sharing best practices in manufacturing and treatment.
Additionally, we collaborate with governments, companies and nonprofit organizations to influence policies and standards that  promote patient access to therapy and products.
Through  these efforts we are working to provide transformative solutions to improve healthcare.
Sharing Best Practices for Renal Care Chronic kidney disease affects 10% of the global population.
1 Additionally, we estimate there are as  many as four million people with end-stage renal  disease globally, which is the last stage of the disease progression and requires dialysis or a kidney transplant to stay alive.
It’s further estimated that millions more  go undiagnosed and untreated globally.
At Baxter, we  seek to make a meaningful contribution to addressing  the burden of renal disease worldwide—striving to make renal care available to people in need while driving better  outcomes through new standards of care.
In 2018, Baxter Renal Care Services, in partnership  with a government hospital in rural Indonesia, launched  a pilot clinic to promote best clinical practices in  peritoneal dialysis (PD) and improve patient outcomes.
After a successful launch, we are expanding the  initiative to additional locations in 2019, providing more  Indonesians access to high-quality renal care.
Additionally, in 2018, we announced a partnership with the International Society of Nephrology to advance  chronic kidney disease awareness and help improve  access to therapy, particularly in low- and middle-income countries—commonly referred to as emerging markets— where the disease prevalence is growing fastest.
The  collaboration will support greater disease and therapy research and education, as well as work to help establish  better care models that support high standards of care at  a lower cost in these countries.
Beginning in 2012, we partnered with the Chinese National Health and Family Planning Commission to  support the “Flying Angel” program, which focused  on a sustainable care and delivery model for PD patients with end-stage renal disease in rural parts  of China.
Over the course of this six-year partnership  from 2012 to 2018, thousands of patients received a higher standard of care, and benefited from expanded  infrastructure and improved accessibility and  affordability of PD therapy in China.
2018 HIGHLIGHTSInnovation   That Expands Access to Care Improve access to healthcare for   the underserved BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32630,000 + people benefited by the  Driving Your Health program  since 201630 grants made by the Baxter  International Foundation to  improve access to healthcare$6 million* in products donatedNearly * The value of products that Baxter contributes during a year may be greater    or less than the value of Baxter products distributed by our relief partners.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction In 2018 we announced the continuation of the Dialysis  Health Imperative for Access, Choice and Equity  program, a collaboration among Baxter, the NAACP and  the Alliance for Home Dialysis, with the goal of informing  individuals within African American communities in the U.S. about access to kidney care and the  disproportionate impact kidney disease has on African Americans and other people of color.
This brings our  three-year partnership investment to nearly $850,000.
Product Donations Targeted product donations play a vital role in both saving  lives and enhancing access to care for underserved  communities globally.
Baxter employs a manufacture-to- donate strategy—an industry best practice—to provide  critically needed, long-dated products that support the  missions of leading humanitarian partners.
In 2018, we  donated approximately $6 million in products, enhancing  access to care for patients worldwide.
We supported  our humanitarian aid partners—Americares,   Direct Relief and Partners In Health—to distribute  products to address critical needs and improve  health outcomes in underserved communities in   84 countries around the world.
Our product donation strategy aligns with the   guidance established by the World Health Organization  Drug Donation Guidelines and the Partnership for   Quality Medical Donations (PQMD).
Baxter serves on the board of PQMD to support global best practices   in product donations.
During 2018, we responded to eight disasters worldwide.
In addition to product donations, Baxter and the Baxter  International Foundation provided short-term disaster  response and recovery grants to the following partners:  American Red Cross, Americares, Direct Relief and  International Medical Corps.
Additionally, our Baxter  Employee Disaster Relief Fund enabled employees to donate  funds to help co-workers impacted by disasters globally.Medical Missions When healthcare professionals travel overseas to  provide charitable medical care to underserved  populations, they often work in hospitals and clinics  that lack surgical supplies.
Our hemostatic and tissue sealant products and anesthesia products are among  the most requested items in these situations.
During  2018, Baxter products were used in 51 countries as part  of more than 300 medical outreach trips supported by  Americares.
Learn more about Americares medical  missions and how to request products.
The Baxter International   Foundation The Baxter International Foundation is the philanthropic  arm of Baxter International Inc.
It focuses on three  key areas: improving access to healthcare, fostering  innovation, and promoting community wellness.
Americares relies on support from Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation  to meet the needs of over 4,000 partner clinics worldwide.
Together we are  increasing access to medicine and putting health within reach for families affected  by poverty or disaster.
MICHAEL J.
NYENHUIS    President and CEO, Americares“ ” Americares relief workers unload medicine and supplies, including Baxter  products, in Puerto Rico.
BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction In 2018, the Baxter International Foundation  provided nearly $7 million in cash contributions to  14 countries, excluding future commitments.
This  included 72 active grants reaching more than three million individuals through programs that target  underserved communities.
The grants funded  programs such as mobile healthcare, nutrition   and STEM education.Driving Your Health (Manejando Tu Salud) Driving Your Health, a free community mobile   medical program, is a multiyear initiative through  2019 aiming to enhance access to healthcare in  underserved communities throughout greater Mexico City.
It focuses on improving health outcomes through  basic preventive care, managing chronic conditions 68,Direct Beneficiaries562,Indirect Beneficiaries Medical campaigns 6,Personal hygiene kits packed  and distributed55,Patients attended to during  medical campaigns 10,Patients transported to  specialized hospitalsHealth professional trainings 2,Health professionals trained 363,Estimated number of patients  who benefited from medical  professional trainings 199,Fliers and educational materials distributedIMPACT OF DRIVING YOUR HEALTH, 2016 –2018*  * Source: Direct Relief“ ”Baxter and the Baxter International  Foundation's extraordinary  commitment to and support for people  who have limited access to health  services has made a tremendous  difference over the years.
Baxter  plays a critical role in Direct Relief’s  humanitarian activities globally, from  earthquake response efforts in Haiti to  mobile health campaigns in Mexico.
THOMAS TIGHE    CEO, Direct Relief A health professional providing care to a patient through the Driving Your Health  mobile clinic partnership.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction and providing transportation assistance to and from  hospitals.
From 2016 through 2018, the program directly benefited approximately 69,000 people and indirectly benefited 562,000 people.
Baxter partners on this project with Direct Relief, Asociación Mexicana de Diabetes de la Ciudad de México A.C., Casa de la Amistad para Niños con Cáncer, I.A.P., and Asociación Gilberto and Orden de Malta de México A.C. Baxter International Foundation   Prize Programs Baxter sponsors three prize programs that recognize  organizations and individuals who have made outstanding contributions and exhibited leadership in healthcare research and health service delivery.
The William B.
Graham Prize is the highest distinction that researchers in the health services field can achieve, recognizing global contributions to improving public health through research.
The Foster G.
McGaw Prize recognizes U.S. healthcare organizations that deliver innovative programs to improve community health and well-being.
The Episteme Award is bestowed biennially to a nurse who has contributed significantly to discovery, practice and knowledge development in the field of nursing.Public Policy Many legislative issues affect our business globally, including reimbursement, tax, trade and a variety of regulatory concerns.
Baxter's Government Policy and Reimbursement team works with lawmakers, governments and policymakers worldwide to support patient access to Baxter’s lifesaving therapies, improve the regulatory environment and reimbursement structure for our therapies, and increase understanding of the benefits of those therapies.
We also collaborate with clinicians, nongovernmental organizations and patient groups to improve access to healthcare for millions of people worldwide.
See Baxter’s 2018 Political Contributions Report for  details about our political contributions as well as our membership in certain trade and industry groups.
During 2018, our key public policy focus areas included: Promoting Innovation in Products for End-Stage  Renal Disease    During 2018, we supported U.S. legislation and administration policy that provides incentives to develop new, innovative devices for patients suffering from end-stage renal disease.
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017    We supported U.S.  Congressional passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs   Act of 2017 and its implementation during 2018.
This legislation is intended to provide tax relief for businesses and individuals.
Home Dialysis    We belong to the Alliance for Home  Dialysis, an organization focused on advocacy, policy and thought leadership.
In 2018, the Alliance championed a provision of the CHRONIC Care Act,  signed into law and implemented via regulation during the year, which enables home dialysis patients and  their providers to conduct monthly clinical visits via telehealth in the patients’ homes.
Additionally, the  Alliance secured home dialysis Current Procedures  Terminology codes for the Medicare telehealth list and prompted Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services interest in more information about requirements  related to access site inspections that may limit  telehealth uptake.
These actions will help increase the number of patients with end-stage renal disease who can dialyze in their homes—providing a better quality of life and saving federal resources.
Home Delivery of Renal Products    In the United States,  state laws and regulations govern pharmaceuticals dispensing.
We work to help shape state policies to better align with our Renal Home Patient service.
Supporting Diverse Populations    During 2018, Baxter representatives attended a number of events to learn more about health disparities affecting diverse  populations and engage key leaders about our efforts  to serve patients with end-stage renal disease, which disproportionately impacts minority populations.
These events included the National Minority Quality Forum  Summit, the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation  Annual Legislative Conference, the National Black Caucus  of State Legislators Annual Meeting and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Public Policy Conference.
Natural Disaster and Pandemic Relief    During 2018, we continued to work with members of congress, the administration, U.S. Food and Drug Administration and  the healthcare stakeholder community to minimize  disruptions to patients caused by natural disasters.
Among other activities, this included promoting U.S. public health preparedness in the case of a pandemic.
BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Every day, Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation  strive to make a meaningful difference in the lives of those  who depend on our products and in the communities where we live and work.
We partner with organizations  around the world to increase access to healthcare, develop  the next generation of innovators for our industry and strengthen our communities.
We are proud to engage  our employees to make a positive and lasting impact in  underserved communities worldwide.
Fostering Tomorrow’s Innovation Innovation is Baxter’s lifeblood.
We take a hands-on approach to developing the next generation of scientists,  engineers and healthcare professionals by supporting  teachers and science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education; supporting employees to serve as  mentors in communities worldwide; and creating diverse  learning opportunities in the sciences.
Through our STEM partners and committed employees, we are helping to  advance tomorrow’s healthcare breakthroughs.
In 2018, we celebrated the 10-year anniversary of  Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real-World  Science.
This commemorates a multiyear commitment  to Chicago Public Schools (CPS) to support STEM teacher training and student enrichment in the health  sciences.
Critical to the implementation of this program  is our partnership with Northwestern University and the creation of the Baxter Center for Science Education.
The success of Science@Work is embodied by our  employees and multiplied by our partners.
Our collaborative approach with community organizations  such as Lindblom Math & Science Academy, Muchin  College Preparatory High School, Instituto Health Sciences Career Academy and the Illinois Science and  Technology Institute has enabled us to give back to  our community, leverage our employees’ expertise and advance STEM education for hundreds of thousands in cash and products  contributed to  communities worldwide* countries reached  through philanthropic  initiatives*$18 million in employee giving through  Matching Gift Program and  Dollars for Doers grants$825,000 +Nearly * By Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation2018 HIGHLIGHTSServing Our  Communities Support communities worldwide   in enduring ways BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 36CPS schools  reached600 + Baxter science lab  kits distributed1,teachers reached3,Baxter volunteers1,600+ students reached250,000+SCIENCE@WORK BY THE NUMBERS, 2008 –2018“ ”The decade long partnership [with  Baxter] has allowed Lindblom and its  students to grow their STEM skills  and ambitions, which has resulted in  Lindblom growing from an unranked  small school in Illinois to one of the  largest in CPS and ranked #11 in  Illinois by U.S. News & World Report.
WAYNE BEVIS    Principal, Lindblom Math & Science AcademyBAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction of students.
Additionally, this year, we supported the  opening of a Baxter Innovation Lab at College of Lake County in Grayslake, Illinois.
During 2018, in continued partnership with Northwestern University, the Baxter Center for Science Education hosted 28 life science workshops for more than 350  teachers across 130 schools in Illinois.
The partnership  also expanded into Lake County during 2018 with an on-site presence at Round Lake High School, bringing the total number to more than 150,000 students reached.
Community and Employee Engagement Baxter’s global reach allows us to serve communities in enduring ways through partnerships, donations, matching gifts and employee volunteerism.
In 2018, Baxter Pharmaceuticals India launched a  program to provide clean water to 11 villages near Baxter’s manufacturing site in Ahmedabad, home to  1,500 of our employees.
The project will enable testing of current water sources to verify purity levels, installation  of a community-level water purification system, and education of villagers on the effects of consuming contaminated water.
This multimillion dollar initiative  aims to benefit 25,000 community members by 2021  with infrastructure support such as rooftop rainwater harvesting tanks, borewells and water storage tanks.
We are also working with the NGO Fundación Solar in Guatemala to reduce natural resource use, improve community health, provide access to clean drinking water  and empower women in Aguacatán, Huehuetenango.
During 2018, Fundación Solar provided more than 270 families in six Aguacatán communities with water  filters and wood-burning stoves that are safer and more energy-efficient than the traditional method of open-fire cooking.
Other partners engaged in this initiative include  the Guatemalan Ministry of the Environment, Universidad  del Valle and the United Nations.
Employee Engagement and Giving Each year, our employees donate thousands of dollars and hours to help make a meaningful difference in  Baxter communities globally.
The Baxter International  Foundation Matching Gift Program matches employee  donations of $25 or more, up to $5,000 each per year, to qualifying U.S. public charities.
In 2018, employees volunteered more than 31,000  hours in 21 countries worldwide.
In the United States and Puerto Rico, employees are eligible for Dollars for Doers, our volunteer grants program that supports eligible organizations.
In 2018, 274 employees applied  for Dollars for Doers grants, which provided $115,000  in support to 243 organizations.
To enable our employees to help co-workers in need, the Baxter Employee Disaster Relief Fund, a global program, provides grants to employees impacted by disasters.employees requesting  matching gifts760+ Foundation  match amount$710,organizations650 + “ ”Our mission is to support quality  STEM education for all students.
Our  partnership with Baxter and the Baxter  International Foundation allows us to  build authentic and engaging science  programs for students and their  teachers that use cutting-edge, real- world science.
With Baxter's support,  we have trained over 1,800 science  teachers and over 150,000 students  have benefited from our programs.
EMILY HOOD FERRIN     Program Director and   Resident Scientist, Northwestern University / Baxter   Center for Science Education Northwestern University, Baxter Center for Science Education, Teacher  Professional DevelopmentBAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTProduct   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Scholarship Program The Baxter International Foundation has a longstanding  commitment to the education of employees’ children  through annual merit-based scholarships.
A third-party  agency evaluates student applications based on academic,  extracurricular and employment accomplishments.
Recipients receive a cash award, and scholarships may be  renewed for up to three additional years.Baxter World Environment Week Through Baxter World Environment Week, we engage  and educate employees on the topics of environmental  sustainability and our commitment to environmental  responsibility.
In 2018, employees and their family  members, representing 75 facilities in 20 countries,  sponsored events such as refuse clean-ups, tree  plantings, green living fairs, flower planting to encourage  pollinators, and visits to local nature preserves, parks  and gardens.
In addition, many Baxter employees shared  best practices related to environmental responsibility, such as reusing newspapers as an alternative to  recycling, opting for reusable bags instead of plastic,  avoiding the use of Styrofoam, keeping food waste out   of landfills and ways to save energy at home.Summary of 2018 Giving During 2018, Baxter and the Baxter International  Foundation donated nearly $18 million in products  and cash.
Baxter makes charitable contributions to  organizations in the communities where its   employees live and work.
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content in this  Baxter World Environment Week section.
organizationscountries 31,000 + volunteer hoursGIVING BACK THROUGH EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM IN Photos left to right:  Baxter summer interns participating in conservation efforts at Shedd Aquarium.
/ Employees volunteering for Habitat for Humanity.
/ Baxter representatives  support Girls in Engineering Mathematics and Science 2018 conference.
2016 2017 Baxter Product Donations to Aid Organizations*   Products/Patient Assistance Programs  $13.65 $8.83 $5.Business and Facility Cash Donations Within U.S.  $3.39 $3.35 $1.Outside U.S.  $5.73 $4.49 $3.Total  $9.12 $7.84 $5.The Baxter International Foundation Contributions Within U.S. (including Puerto Rico)   Grants**  $2.05 $1.72 $4.Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers  $0.88 $1.03 $0.83  Scholarships  $0.27 $0.26 $0.Prize Programs  $0.31 $0.32 $0.
Outside U.S.   Grants  $0.86 $0.64 $0.Scholarships  $0.12 $0.12 $0.Total Foundation Contributions  $4.49 $4.09 $6.Total Charitable Giving  $27.26 $20.76 $17.62Subtotal         $3.51       $3.33 $6.Subtotal         $0.98       $0.76 $0.*BAXTER AND THE BAXTER INTERNATIONAL FOUNDATION CHARITABLE GIVING  (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS ) Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and changes in product mix and marketing.
We identify opportunities to donate and respond to community and humanitarian aid partners as appropriate.
This number may be greater or less than the value of Baxter products distributed during the year by our relief partners.
See Innovation That Expands Access to Care .
Contributions to U.S.-based 501(c)(3) organizations for programs within and outside of   the United States.**new scholarshipsrenewed scholarshipscountries worldwide26BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT39Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction APPENDIX:   About This Report and Recognition About This Report External Reporting Standards To develop our corporate responsibility reporting  approach, we have considered the disclosure frameworks and guidance of leading sustainability standards and reporting organizations, including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and third-party research providers focused on environmental, social and governance issues.
We were one of the first companies to pilot the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, in 1999,  and belong to the GRI GOLD Community.
We referenced the GRI 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards in the development of this report.
See the GRI Index for detail.
Feedback Readers of this report can provide comments and  suggestions to us via email:   corporate_responsibility_report@baxter.com.
Scope of This Report The performance and other data in this report are from  calendar year 2018 unless stated otherwise.
Some examples  and program descriptions include information from 2019.• This report covers Baxter’s global operations,  including subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise.
Environmental, health and safety data include joint  ventures where we have a controlling interest.
• The performance data in this report do not include parts of Baxter that became Baxalta on July 1, 2015,  unless stated otherwise.
• All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless  stated otherwise.
• Significant restatements of data compared to prior years are noted in the sections where they appear.
• This report is intended for global use.
Please consult the appropriate country-specific Baxter website for  information regarding activities in that country.
• Some statements in this report about products   or procedures may differ from the licensed indications in specific countries.
Therefore,   always consult the country-specific summary of product characteristics (SPC), package leaflets   or instructions for use.
For more information, please contact a local Baxter representative.
Recognition Baxter is proud to be recognized by numerous global,  national and local industry associations and publications  around the world.
These examples of our recent accomplishments highlight Baxter as an employer  of choice, as a company that works to nurture an  inclusive and diverse workplace, and as a socially and  environmentally responsible business.• CDP Climate Change       Leadership Score of A- (2018) • National Association for Female Executives       Top Companies for Executive Women (2019) • RobecoSAM       Sustainability Yearbook (2019) • Women's Choice Award       Best Companies for Women (2019) • Working Mother       Best Companies for Multicultural Women (2019) Working Mother  100 Best Companies 2018Human Rights Campaign Foundation 2019 Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Equality 100% Corporate Equality IndexDiversity Best Practices   Leading Inclusion Index Company 2018Member of Dow Jones Sustainability Indices in Collaboration with RobecoSAM Forbes 2019 America’s Best Large Employers Military Friendly Employer Bronze 2018CR Magazine 100 Best Corporate Citizens Forbes America's Most Just Companies2018 FTSE4GoodAWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS HIGHLIGHTS BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT40Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction APPENDIX:   Baxter Data Summary     Financial Performance Net Sales ($ millions)   $10,163 $10,561  $11,U.S. Net Sales ($ millions)   $4,259 $4,510 $4,723  International Net Sales ($ millions)   $5,904 $6,051 $6,Net Income ($ millions)   $4,965 $717 $1,624  Stock Price ($ at year end)   /uniFEFF$44.34 $64.64 $65.82  Dividend ($ per share)   /uniFEFF$0.51 $0.61 $0.Research and Development ($ millions)   $646 $613 $Workplace Culture  Global Workforce by Job Level1 (as a % of total)    Executive   0.3% 0.3% 0.3%  Management   11.3% 11.6% 11.1%  Professional   30.5% 25.3% 24.8%   Technical/Clerical   57.8% 62.8% 63.8% Global Workforce by Gender (as a % of total)    Women   49.3% 49.4% 48.0%   Men   50.7% 50.6% 52.0% Global Workforce by Region (as a % of total)    Americas2   48.2% 49.6% 49.8%   /uniFEFFEurope, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)   29.1% 28.6% 26.6%   /uniFEFFAsia Pacific   22.6% 21.8% 23.6% Representation of Women by Region (as a % of total)       Americas2   49.9% 49.8% 49.9%   EMEA   48.4% 47.4% 48.2%  /uniFEFF Asia Pacific   49.3% 51.2% 43.7% Representation of Women by Job Level1 (as a % of total)       Executive   26.0% 28.9% 33.3%  Management   39.1% 40.1% 40.0%  Professional   49.1% 49.2% 48.7%   Technical/Clerical   /uniFEFF51.5% 51.4% 49.1% Ethnic Minority Representation by Job Level1, 3 (as a % of total, U.S. only)  /uniFEFF37.8% 37.5% 38.5%  Executive   22.2% 19.0% 19.3%  Management   /uniFEFF25.4% 26.3% 26.4%  Professional   30.2% 30.4% 30.4%    Technical/Clerical   44.5% 43.6% 45.0% Employee Health and Safety4   Recordable Case Rate5   0.62 0.45 0.
North America   1.37 0.91 0.
Latin America   0.26 0.18 0.26    EMEA   0.56 0.38 0.
Asia Pacific   0.09 0.04 0.Cases with Days Lost Rate6   0.14 0.10 0.
North America   0.26 0.21 0.
Latin America   0.05 0.03 0.
EMEA   /uniFEFF0.19 0.10 0.
Asia Pacific   /uniFEFF0.01 0.00 0.
Employee Health and Safety4 (continued) Days Lost Rate7   3.60 3.62 2.
North America   /uniFEFF8.98 7.62 6.
Latin America   0.22 1.48 1.
EMEA   3.76 2.70 2.
Asia Pacific   0.04 0.00 0.Restricted Days Rate8   /uniFEFF14.53 8.69 6.
North America    0.17 20.85 15.23   Latin America   /uniFEFF1.62 0.42 0.
EMEA   45.52 4.75 4.
Asia Pacific   13.37 1.23 1.Days Away (Lost), Restricted or Transferred Rate (DART)   /uniFEFF18.12 12.31 9.Employee/Contractor Major Incidents (total number)   8/0 7/0 6/Employee/Contractor Fatalities (total number)   0/0 0/0 1/Health and Safety Notices of Violation Settled   /uniFEFF1 2 Health and Safety Fines Paid (in dollars)   /uniFEFF$1,529 $8,500  $7,Sources of Recordable Injury and Serious Incidents (as a % of total)    Ergonomic   25% 22% 22%  Involving the Body (nonergonomic)   2% 7% 6%   Punctures   /uniFEFF5% 6% 12%  Struck by Object   19% 20% 16%  Slips, Trips and Falls    22% 19% 24%   Caught in, on or Between   /uniFEFF11% 12% 13%   Forklifts and Other Vehicles   /uniFEFF3% 3% 4%   Other   13% 11% 4% OperationsBaxter Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions10 (metric tons)   /uniFEFF23 24  Cumene    3 3  EtO   /uniFEFF1 1 3   Methylene Chloride   /uniFEFF2 2  Methanol    0 0 0   DEHP   17 18  Other   0 0 Kg Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   /uniFEFF2 2 NOx and SOx Emissions11 (metric tons)   550 529  NOx   418 412   SOx    132 117  Kg NOx and SOx Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   54 50  Energy Usage from Baxter Operations12 (trillions of joules)   9,256 9,196  9, North America   3,721  3,858  4, Latin America   943  954   EMEA   2,893 2,801  2, Asia Pacific    /uniFEFF1,699  1,583  1,Billions of Joules per Million Dollars of Sales   911 871 Renewable Energy Purchased (trillions of joules)   2,554 2,722  2,Facility Usage of Renewable Energy (as a % of total energy use)   /uniFEFF28% 30% 29%SECTION AND INDICATOR  2016 2017 2018 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2016 2017 Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the Employee Health and Safety, Operations, and Responsible  Procurement and Logistics content in this section.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT41Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction     Operations9 (continued) Lean Energy Program Performance13 (% of program criteria implemented across all manufacturing facilities, at year-end)  Prerequisite   97% 97% 99%   Bronze   /uniFEFF89% 92% 96%   Silver   76% 80% 85%  Gold   /uniFEFF60% 64% 66% Baxter's Global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Footprint  (Scope 1, 2, and 3) (metric tons CO2e).
See Baxter Value Chain    Energy Usage and GHG Emissions for detail.
/uniFEFF5,130,000 4,768,000 5,231,GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations (metric tons CO2e)   687,000 603,000 621,000   North America   260,000 250,000 262, Latin America   70,000 69,000 72, EMEA   189,000 125,000 125, Asia Pacific   168,000 159,000 162,GHG Emissions from Operations per Million Dollars of Sales   (metric tons CO2e)   68 57 Total Waste15 (metric tons)   72,600 71,000  69, North America   25,500 26,700  27, Latin America   10,500 8,100  8, EMEA   /uniFEFF28,700 28,400  25, Asia Pacific   8,000 7,800  8,Metric Tons of Total Waste per Million Dollars of Sales   7.14 6.72 6.Nonhazardous Waste16 (metric tons)   64,000 62,900 62, North America   23,700 25,100  25, Latin America   9,000 6,800  6, EMEA   23,500 23,400 22,400   Asia Pacific   7,800 7,600  7,Metric Tons of Nonhazardous Waste per Million Dollars of Sales   6.29 5.95 5.Regulated Waste17 (metric tons)   8,600 8,100 7,100   North America   1,800 1,600 2, Latin America   /uniFEFF1,500 1,300 1, EMEA   5,200 5,000 3, Asia Pacific   /uniFEFF200 200 300  Metric Tons of Regulated Waste per Million Dollars of Sales   0.85 0.77 0.Waste Management at Baxter (% of total)    Recycled (on-site or off-site)   56.0% 60.3% 62.7%   Incinerated with Energy Recovery   14.2% 15.3% 17.1%   Incinerated   4.9% 4.8% 5.2%  Sent to Landfill   /uniFEFF16.6% 15.4% 12.6%  Other Disposal   /uniFEFF8.3% 4.2% 2.4% Water Usage (thousand cubic meters)   13,898 13,776 14, North America   /uniFEFF5,130 5,046  5, Latin America   /uniFEFF1,558 1,672  1, EMEA   /uniFEFF3,966 4,094  4, Asia Pacific   3,244 2,964  3,116  Thousand Cubic Meters Water Usage per Million Dollars of Sales   1.37 1.30 1.28Water Usage, by Availability 18 (thousand cubic meters)   13,190 13,052 13,540   Extreme-Scarcity Water Resources   387 644   Scarce Water Resources   /uniFEFF565 620  771   Stressed Water Resources   3,695 3,652  3,599   Sufficient Water Resources   /uniFEFF3,772 3,360  3, Abundant Water Resources   4,771 4,776  4,    Operations9 (continued) Wastewater Flow19 (total direct discharge, thousand cubic meters)    3,754 3,395  3,414   BOD5 (metric tons)   38 29 24    BOD5 (mg/L)   10 9 7   COD (metric tons)   92 78  COD (mg/L)   24 23 18   TSS (metric tons)   40 31  TSS (mg/L)   11 9 Environmental Compliance   Environmental Notices of Violation   /uniFEFF4 5 9   Environmental Fines Paid 20 (in dollars)   $0  $4,727  $79,Responsible Procurement and Logistics Spend with Suppliers21 (United States and Puerto Rico)    (approximate, dollars in billions)    $2.9 $2.1 $2.Supplier Diversity22 (dollars in millions)  Spend with Small Businesses   $370 $347 $378   Spend with Minority-Owned Businesses   /uniFEFF$40 $40 $94   Spend with Women-Owned Businesses   $89 $84 $ Spend with Veteran-Owned Businesses   $7 $5 $Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Mode (metric tons CO2e)  336,000 453,300 516,700    Air   /uniFEFF71,600 104,500 80,400     Ocean    20,400 63,200 62,300   Rail    15,300 14,500 21, Ground    228,700 271,200 352,Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Region (metric tons CO2e)  336,000 453,300 516,700   North America    167,600 176,100 197, Latin America    /uniFEFF9,000 53,900 50, EMEA    /uniFEFF126,600 175,700 185, Asia Pacific    32,800 47,600 83,Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving (dollars in millions) Total Charitable Giving   $27.26 $20.76 $17.Product Donations Products/Patient Assistance Programs   $13.65 $8.83 $5.Business and Facility Cash Donations   /uniFEFF$9.12 $7.84 $5.
Within the United States   $3.39  $3.35 $1.
Outside the United States   $5.73 $4.49 $3.The Baxter International Foundation Contributions   $4.49 $4.09 $6.
Within the United States (including Puerto Rico)   $3.51 $3.33 $6.
Grants24   $2.05 $1.72 $4.
Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers   $0.88 $1.03 $0.
Scholarships   $0.27 $0.26 $0.
Prize Programs   $0.31 $0.32 $0.
Outside the United States   $0.98 $0.76 $0.
Grants   $0.86 $0.64 $0.
Scholarships   $0.12 $0.12 $0.Political Contributions See Baxter’s 2018 Political Contributions Report for detailed data.
SECTION AND INDICATOR  2016 2017 2018 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2016 2017    Employee Health and Safety4 (continued) Days Lost Rate7   3.60 3.62 2.
North America   /uniFEFF8.98 7.62 6.
Latin America   0.22 1.48 1.
EMEA   3.76 2.70 2.
Asia Pacific   0.04 0.00 0.Restricted Days Rate8   /uniFEFF14.53 8.69 6.
North America   0.17 20.85 15.23   Latin America   /uniFEFF1.62 0.42 0.
EMEA   45.52 4.75 4.
Asia Pacific   13.37 1.23 1.Days Away (Lost), Restricted or Transferred Rate (DART)   /uniFEFF18.12 12.31 9.Employee/Contractor Major Incidents (total number)   8/0 7/0 6/Employee/Contractor Fatalities (total number)   0/0 0/0 1/Health and Safety Notices of Violation Settled   /uniFEFF1 2 Health and Safety Fines Paid (in dollars)   /uniFEFF$1,529 $8,500  $7,Sources of Recordable Injury and Serious Incidents (as a % of total)    Ergonomic   25% 22% 22%  Involving the Body (nonergonomic)   2% 7% 6%   Punctures   /uniFEFF5% 6% 12%  Struck by Object   19% 20% 16%  Slips, Trips and Falls   22% 19% 24%   Caught in, on or Between   /uniFEFF11% 12% 13%   Forklifts and Other Vehicles   /uniFEFF3% 3% 4%   Other   13% 11% 4% OperationsBaxter Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions10 (metric tons)   /uniFEFF23 24  Cumene    3 3  EtO   /uniFEFF1 1 3   Methylene Chloride   /uniFEFF2 2  Methanol   0 0 0   DEHP   17 18  Other   0 0 Kg Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   /uniFEFF2 2 NOx and SOx Emissions11 (metric tons)   550 529  NOx   418 412   SOx    132 117  Kg NOx and SOx Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales   54 50  Energy Usage from Baxter Operations12 (trillions of joules)   9,256 9,196  9, North America   3,721  3,858  4, Latin America   943  954   EMEA   2,893 2,801  2, Asia Pacific   /uniFEFF1,699  1,583  1,Billions of Joules per Million Dollars of Sales   911 871 Renewable Energy Purchased (trillions of joules)   2,554 2,722  2,Facility Usage of Renewable Energy (as a % of total energy use)   /uniFEFF28% 30% 29% APPENDIX:   Baxter Data Summary  (continued)BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT42Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction APPENDIX:   Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions   Units 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 Upstream Scope 3 Emissions    Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1)3  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 717 745 Capital Goods (Category 2)4  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 90 79 Fuel and Energy-related Activities (Category 3)5  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 139 130 Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 4)6  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 336 453 Waste Generated in Operations (Category 5)7  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 14 13 Business Travel (Category 6)8  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 102 52 Employee Commuting (Category 7)9  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 30 30 Upstream Leased Assets (Category 8)10  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 Upstream Scope 3 Emissions Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 1,428 1,502 1,Baxter OperationsStationary Sources (facilities)  Electricity (purchased) Million kWh 980 962 988 3,542 3,477 3,571 $104.3 $104.3 $107.6 466 448 Electricity (on-site renewable) Million  kWh 4 4 4 15 13 13 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Natural Gas  Million Cubic Meters 106 105 111 4,062 4,018 4,257  $35.6  $32.3  $32.7 202 199 Fuel Oil Million Liters 9 9 6 367 365 248  $4.3  $4.1  $3.5 26 26 Propane and LPG Million Kilograms 6 6 7 292 301 341  $3.8  $4.5  $5.7 18 18 Purchased Steam Million Kilograms /uniFEFF11 36 48 25 83 113  $0.3  $0.4  $0.4 24 29 Biomass12 Million Kilograms 133 136 135 963 950 940  $4.4  $4.1  $4.4 2 2 Carbon Dioxide Offsets13 Million Kilograms /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 116 175 Subtotal  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a 9,266 9,207 9,483 $152.7 $149.7 $154.3 738 722 Mobile Sources (Baxter-operated vehicles)Aviation Fuel Million Liters 0.7 0.4 0.4 23 16 13  $0.5  $0.2  $0.2 2 1 Gasoline  Million Liters 6.0 5.4 5.2 217 197 189  $6.2  $5.9  $5.9 14 12 Diesel Fuel   Million Liters 12.7 12.9 12.3 489 494 475  $10.1  $9.8  $13.0 34 34 Subtotal Million Liters 19.4 18.7 17.9 729 707 677  $16.8  $15.9  $19.1 49 48 RefrigerantsRefrigerant Losses (facilities) Metric Tons /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 14 9 Scope 1 Total    /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 311 301 Scope 2 Total (market-based)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 373 302 Scope 2 Total (location-based)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 446 433 Baxter Operations Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a 9,995 9,914 10,160  $169.5  $165.6  $173.4 684 603 Downstream Scope 3 Emissions   Downstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 9)16  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 143 122 Processing of Sold Products (Category 10)17  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 15 15 Use of Sold Products (Category 11)18  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 2,680 2,369 2,End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products (Category 12)18  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 180 157 Downstream Leased Assets (Category 13)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 Franchises (Category 14)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 Investments (Category 15)  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0 Downstream Scope 3 Emissions Total  /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 3,018 2,663 2,Total  GHG E missions (including CO2e offsets in Baxter operations)19 /uniFEFFn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 5,130 4,768 5,231Energy Usage Joules (trillions )Energy Costs (dollars in millions)Carbon Dioxide  Equivalents1,2  (thousand metric tons) Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content in this section.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT43Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction APPENDIX:   Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 and Green Building Certifications    North America Canada, Ontario Alliston X X  Canada, Ontario Mississauga    Canada LEED Silver (2014)  United States, Alabama Opelika X X United States, Arkansas Mountain Home/Midway  X X X  United States, California Hayward X X  United States, California Irvine X   United States, Illinois Round Lake , Manufacturing  X  X  United States, Illinois Round Lake, R&D    LEED Silver (2013)United States, Indiana Bloomington X X United States, Minnesota St. Paul X  United States, Mississippi Cleveland X X United States, New York Medina X  United States, North Carolina Marion (North Cove) X X Latin America     Brazil São Paulo X X X  Colombia Cali X X X  Costa Rica Cartago X X X  Mexico Atlacomulco X X  Mexico Cuernavaca X X  Puerto Rico Aibonito X X Puerto Rico Guayama X   Puerto Rico Jayuya X Europe, Middle East and Africa Belgium Lessines X X X Belgium Lessines BDCE X X France Jonage-Lyon X   BREEAM Good (2011) France Meyzieu X   Germany Bielefeld X X X Germany Halle Westfalen X X X Germany Hechingen X X X Greece Athens (Herakleio) X Ireland Castlebar X X X Ireland Swinford X X Region/Country/ City ISO OHSAS ISO Green Building State/Province  14001 18001 50001 CertificationRegion/Country/ City ISO OHSAS ISO Green Building State/Province  14001 18001 50001 Certification     Europe, Middle East and Africa (continued) Ireland Dublin/Blackrock X Ireland Dublin/Sandyford X   Italy Grosotto X X  Italy Medolla X X   Italy Monselice X X  Italy Rome X X  Italia LEED Gold (2015 ) Italy Sesto Fiorentino X X  Italy Sondalo X X Malta Marsa X X  Portugal Sintra X X Spain Sabiñánigo X X X Spain Valencia X X Sweden Lund X   Sweden Rosersberg    EU GreenBuilding (2011) Switzerland Zurich    Minergie Plus (2010) Tunisia Oued Ellil X X  United Kingdom Elstree X   United Kingdom Northwood X X   United Kingdom Northampton X X  United Kingdom Stockport X X  United Kingdom Oxford X X  United Kingdom Thetford X X Asia Pacific Australia Toongabbie X X X China Guangzhou X X China Shanghai X X China Suzhou X X China Tianjin X X India Ahmedabad Office    LEED Gold (2018) Japan Miyazaki X New Zealand Auckland X X Philippines Canlubang X X Singapore Woodlands X X X  Thailand Amata X Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content in this section.BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT44Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction APPENDIX:   Independent Assurance Statement Introduction and Objectives of Work Baxter engaged Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.
(BVNA)  of the Bureau Veritas Group to conduct an independent  assurance of selected sections in Baxter’s 2018 Corporate  Responsibility Report (the Report).
This Assurance Statement applies to the "Selected Information" included  within the scope of work described below.
Selected Information The scope of work included reasonable-level assurance of the following  Selected Information: Data and information included in the following sections of the Report: • Product Innovation except the Patient Safety and Quality subsection • Employee Health and Safety • Operations  −Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission verification is documented  under a separate verification statement • Serving Our Communities—Baxter World Environment  Week subsection Related material in the Report Appendix, including: • Baxter Data Summary—Employee Health and Safety and  Operations subsections • Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions • Facilities with ISO 14001, OSHAS 18001, ISO 50001 and Green Building Certifications The scope of work also included limited-level assurance of the  following Selected Information: Data and information included in the following section of the Report: • Responsible Procurement and Logistics Related material in the Report Appendix: • Baxter Data Summary—Responsible Procurement and   Logistics subsection Limitations and Exclusions Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information  relating to: • Activities outside the defined assurance period, the 2018 calendar year • Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future  intention) by Baxter and statements of future commitment • Any financial data previously audited by an external third party • Data and information included in sections of the Report that are not listed in the scope of work above This assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected sample of  data and the associated limitations that this entails.
This independent  statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist.
Responsibilities The preparation and presentation of the Selected Information in the Report  are the sole responsibility of the management of Baxter.
BVNA was not  involved in the drafting of the Report.
Our only responsibilities were to provide independent assurance on the accuracy and reliability of the Selected  Information; to form an independent conclusion based on the assurance  procedures performed and evidence obtained; and to report our conclusions.
Assessment Standard and Reporting Criteria We performed our work in accordance with BVNA’s standard  procedures and guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability  Reports and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements  (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance  reports dated on or after December 15, 2015), issued by the  International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
The Reporting Criteria for this assurance were Baxter’s reporting requirements for facility Environmental, Health, Safety and  Sustainability performance.
The work was planned and carried out to provide reasonable, rather   than absolute, assurance of the Selected Information except for the Responsible Procurement and Logistics section of the Report, which   was carried out to provide limited assurance.
We believe that our work  provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.
Summary of Work Performed As part of BVNA’s assurance process, BVNA undertook the  following activities: • Assessed the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the  Selected Information • Conducted interviews with relevant Baxter personnel responsible for collecting and reporting performance data and other subject matter for the Selected Information • Attended a conference call with Baxter representatives and stakeholders to observe management involvement and stakeholder inclusion in corporate responsibility at Baxter • Reviewed documentary evidence produced by Baxter to support  the Selected Information • Assessed the disclosure and presentation of the Selected Information with emphasis on principles of accuracy, accessibility, balance, clarity, comparability, reliability and timeliness and to ensure consistency with the Reporting Criteria • Audited performance data during visits to operating sites located in: Jayuya, Puerto Rico; Grosotto, Italy; Guangzhou, China; Mountain Home, Arkansas; Sondalo, Italy; and Tijuana, Mexico • Audited consolidated performance data including review of a sample of data-to-source documentation • Reviewed Baxter data and information systems used for collection, aggregation, analysis and review of Selected Information during visits to Baxter’s offices in Round Lake, Illinois, and Deerfield, Illinois, United States Conclusions On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our  opinion that the Selected Information within the Product Innovation (except  the Patient Safety and Quality subsection), Employee Health and Safety,  Operations, and Serving Our Communities, Baxter World Environment Week sections of the Report and related material in the Report Appendix: • is accurate, reliable and free from material mistake or misstatement;• is presented in a clear, understandable and accessible manner; • is presented based on the Reporting Criteria; • provides a fair and balanced representation of activities; and • allows readers to form a balanced opinion of Baxter’s 2018  activities and performance.
In addition, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the data  and information in the Responsible Procurement and Logistics section  of the Report are inaccurate or that the information is not fairly stated.
It is also our opinion that Baxter has established appropriate   systems for the collection, aggregation, analysis and review of the Selected Information.
Additional Commentary During the assurance process, BVNA observed that Baxter has  continued to improve its overall data collection and reporting processes  at the site and corporate level.
Opportunities for improving facility- level data collection, reporting and procedural documentation at some facilities were noted.
We recommend Baxter initiate the gathering of input for  development of goals related to material issues for the next   reporting interval beyond 2020.
Statement of Independence, Impartiality and Competence Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company  that specializes in quality, environmental, health, safety and social  accountability with over 190 years history.
Its assurance team has  extensive experience in conducting verification of environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes.
Bureau Veritas operates a certified 1 Quality Management System which  complies with the requirements of ISO 9001:2015, and accordingly  maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including  documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and  regulatory requirements.
Bureau Veritas has implemented and applies a Code of Ethics, which  meets the requirements of the International Federation of Inspections  Agencies (IFIA) 2, across the business to ensure that its employees  maintain integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality, professional behavior and high ethical standards in their  day-to-day business activities.
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship  with Baxter, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this  assignment.
We have conducted this verification independently, and there has been no conflict of interest.
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance  of environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes and an excellent understanding of the Bureau  Veritas Group’s standard methodology for the Assurance of Corporate  Responsibility Reports.
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.
Lakewood, CO  |  June 1 C ertificate of Registration No. 44 100 160145 issued by TUV Nord  2 Int ernational Federation of Inspection Agencies—Compliance Code—Third EditionBAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT45Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI ) INDEX This index references information related to disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative 2016 Sustainability Reporting Standards.
The reported information may meet in part or in full the requirements of each GRI disclosure listed.
Disclosure Disclosure 2018 Reporting 2018 Reporting GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Company Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Baxter 2018 10-K 102-3 Location of headquarters Baxter's corporate headquarters is in  Deerfield, Illinois.
102-4 Location of operations Baxter 2018 10-K 102-5 Ownership and legal form Baxter International Inc.
(BAX) is a publicly traded company listed on the New York   Stock Exchange.
102-6 Markets served Baxter 2018 10-K 102-7 Scale of the organization Operations; Baxter 2018 10-K 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Baxter Data Summary 102-9 Supply chain Responsible Procurement and Logistics 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and  its supply chain Baxter 2018 10-K 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Patient Safety and Quality ; Sustainable Design;  Materials Use 102-12 External initiatives Examples are included throughout this report.
102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder Engagement Strategy   102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker From the Chairman and CEO Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms   of behaviorEthics and Compliance; Responsible  Procurement and Logistics 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethics and Compliance Helpline Governance   102-18 Governance structure Our Governance 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Responsibility at Baxter 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Corporate Responsibility at Baxter 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Our Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Our GovernanceGRI 102: General Disclosures (continued) Organizational Profile 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest   governance bodyCorporate Governance Guidelines 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Guidelines 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and   social topicsCorporate Responsibility at Baxter 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Baxter 2019 Proxy Statement 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Guidelines 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance Guidelines Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement; Baxter 2019   Proxy Statement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement; Baxter 2019  Proxy Statement Reporting Practice   102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  financial statements Baxter 2018 10-K 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality 102-47 List of material topics Materiality 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 102-51 Date of most recent report June 102-52 Reporting cycle Yearly 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report corporate_responsibility_report@baxter.com 102-55 GRI content index This section 102-56 External assurance Assurance and Verification GRI 200 Economic Standard Series GRI 201: Economic PerformanceManagement approach Innovation That Expands Access to Care;   Serving Our Communities 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Serving Our Communities; Baxter Data Summary ; Baxter 2018 10-K 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Baxter CDP submissionBAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT46Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Disclosure Disclosure 2018 Reporting 2018 Reporting GRI 200 Economic Standard Series (continued) GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Management approach Innovation That Expands Access to Care;   Serving Our Communities 203-1 Infrastructure investments and  services supported Innovation That Expands Access to Care;  Serving Our Communities 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Innovation That Expands Access to Care;  Serving Our Communities GRI 205: Anticorruption Management approach Ethics and Compliance 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related   to corruptionEthics and Compliance 205-2 Communication and training about   anticorruption policies and proceduresEthics and Compliance GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series GRI 301: Materials Management approach Sustainable Design; Materials Use; Product  End-of-Life 301-3 Reclaimed products and their   packaging materialsProduct End-of-Life GRI 302: Energy Management approach Operations; Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy ; Baxter Data Summary ; Baxter Value  Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions 302-3 Energy intensity Energy ; Baxter Data Summary 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy GRI 303: WaterManagement approach Operations; Water and Wastewater 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water and Wastewater ; Baxter Data Summary 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by   withdrawal of waterWater and Wastewater ; Baxter Data SummaryGRI 300 Environmental Standards Series (continued) GRI 305: Emissions Management approach Operations; GHG Emissions Across the Value  Chain; GHG Emissions from Operations 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain; GHG Emissions from Operations; Baxter Data  Summary ; Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage   and GHG Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain;   GHG Emissions from Operations; Baxter Data  Summary ; Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage   and GHG Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain;   Baxter Data Summary ; Baxter Value Chain  Energy Usage and GHG Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG Emissions from Operations;  Baxter Data Summary 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GHG Emissions from Operations 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX)   and other significant air emissionsBaxter Data Summary GRI 306: Effluents and Waste Management approach Operations; Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Baxter Data Summary 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste ; Baxter Data Summary GRI 307: Environmental Compliance Management approach Operations 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws   and regulationsBaxter Data Summary GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Management approach Managing Procurement Risks; Supplier  Corporate Responsibility Survey ; Supplier Audits  308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the  supply chain and actions taken Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  Supplier Audits; Green Logistics; Baxter Value  Chain Energy Usage and GHG EmissionsGLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI ) INDEX  (continued)BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT47Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction Disclosure Disclosure 2018 Reporting 2018 Reporting GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 401: Employment Management approach Workplace Culture 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Voluntary employee turnover was 14.6% in 2018.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees   that are not provided to temporary or   part-time employeesCompensation and Benefits   All benefits are generally provided to full-time  and part-time employees.
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding   operational changesMinimum notice period varies by country.
The length of the notice period is dependent on the  type of change being made.
Baxter is committed to providing appropriate notice and follows all  relevant consultation and notice requirements.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Management approach Employee Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational  diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and  number of work-related fatalitiesEmployee Health and Safety ; Baxter Data  Summary GRI 404: Training and Education Management approach Employee Engagement 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and  transition assistance programsEmployee Engagement GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Management approach Global Inclusion and Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Baxter Data Summary ; Our Leadership GRI 408: Child Labor Management approach Responsible Procurement; Baxter Global  Human Rights Policy ; Baxter Code of Conduct;  Baxter Supplier Quality Standard; Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  Supplier AuditsGRI 400 Social Standards Series (continued) GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor Management approach Responsible Procurement; Baxter Global  Human Rights Policy ; Baxter Code of Conduct;  Baxter Supplier Quality Standard; Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers;  Baxter California Transparency in Supply Chains  Act Position Statement; Baxter UK Modern  Slavery Statement; Baxter Conflict Minerals  Position Statement 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Supplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  Supplier Audits GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment  Management approach Managing Procurement Risks; Supplier  Corporate Responsibility Survey ; Supplier Audits 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and  actions takenSupplier Corporate Responsibility Survey ;  Supplier Audits GRI 415: Public Policy Management approach Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Baxter 2018 Political Contributions Report GRI 416: Customer Health and SafetyManagement approach Product Innovation 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts   of product and service categoriesPatient Safety and Quality ; Sustainable Design 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning  the health and safety impacts of products   and servicesBaxter 2018 10-K GRI 418: Customer Privacy Management approach Privacy and Data Protection GRI 419: Socioeconomic ComplianceManagement approach Ethics and Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in   the social and economic areaBaxter 2018 10-KGLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI ) INDEX  (continued)BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT48Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction APPENDIX:   Endnotes 2020 PRIORITIES AND GOALS 1	2018 is the first year we are including Baxter Hemodialysis products in this value.
Excluding these products (comparable to  2015), we achieved a 56%, reduction compared with 2015.
2 This represents the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packaging innovation was implemented.
3 Dat a are from Aon Hewitt.
The global average represents approximately 500 companies and approximately 11 million employees.
Top  quartile is a subset of the global average.
4 In a comparison of 36 global companies across all industries, 29 reported global safety data to ORC HSE and 7 reported data on their public websites.
5 Includes spending with w omen-owned businesses and minority-owned businesses.
Spending with suppliers that qualify for both  categories is included in the total for each category.
United States and Puerto Rico.
Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September  30 of the year noted).
PRODUCT INNOVATION 1	United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs, “World Population Prospects, The 2017 Revision: Key Findings and Advance Tables,” https://population.un.org/wpp/Publications/Files/WPP2017_KeyFindings.pdf .
Last accessed April 2019.
WORKPLACE CULTURE 1	As of December 31, 2018.
2	These data do not represent all employee training but do capture a large portion of web-based training for most employees.
Beginning in 2019, we will capture more complete data through our new training platform, BAXU.
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY 1 Each y ear, profiles untouched for the previous three years are removed from the active database.
OPERATIONS 1 The envir onmental data included in this report are based on 159 reporting locations, of which 52 are manufacturing, 19 are  warehouse, and 88 are pharmacies, administrative, clerical or other.
Several of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that report as a single entity.
For example, in 2018, Baxter’s 46 renal therapy sites in Colombia reported as a single entity.
The reporting  scope excludes certain leased facilities for which environmental performance data are not available or are not material to Baxter’s  overall environmental performance.
The health and safety data included in this report are based on 164 reporting locations.
The Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) information reported covers 100% of Baxter’s operations unless noted  otherwise.
EHS&S data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant closings as well as to incorporate any corrections  necessary due to additional data verification activities (such as EHS&S audits).
See the Baxter Data Summary for additional detail.
2 One cubic met er equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.
3 W ater value stream mapping is an interactive, lean manufacturing tool that helps facilities better understand the quantity and  quality of water used in their processes and identify opportunities for reduction or reuse.
4 To more closely reflect production efficiency and support consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends, we exclude certain nonroutine, non-production-related waste streams from our total waste performance data and progress against our 2020 waste goal.
These waste streams are construction and demolition debris, remediation waste and wastewater treatment sludge.
5 We report “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste.” This term includes some materials that would otherwise be classified as  nonhazardous waste in some countries, which helps Baxter harmonize waste reporting across locations.
In addition to wastes typically  considered hazardous (such as toxics and corrosives), we also include oils, biohazardous or infectious materials, batteries, fluorescent  lamps, asbestos and other materials that may not be defined as hazardous waste by national legislation at the point of origin.
6 Inciner ation with energy recovery is considered recycling.
7 A single waste stream at a facility in Europe has government-mandated requirements.
This waste stream is excluded from the total.
8 Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have a high level of certainty and have been verified for the past eight years to a reasonable assurance level by Bureau Veritas North America.
Scope 3 categories are based on various assumptions and estimates.
For the past six  years, Bureau Veritas North America has verified to a limited assurance level Baxter’s methodology and emission factors for calculating  Scope 3 GHG emissions.
The market-based method is used for Scope 2 unless otherwise stated.
Data in this report are presented in accordance with the GHG Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.OPERATIONS  (CONTINUED ) 9 In 2018, we used biomass fuels to generate energy in boilers at two Baxter locations, one in the United States and one in Italy.
During the year, emissions from the Baxter-operated biomass boilers equaled 145,000 metric tons CO 2.
In accordance with the GHG  Protocol, these are not included in reported Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
However, also in accordance with the GHG Protocol, we  include CO2e emissions from the CH4 and N2O components of biomass combustion in our reported Scope 1 emissions.
10 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power Partnership Fortune 500 Partners List.
As of April 22, 2019.
RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT AND LOGISTICS 1 W e have processes to avoid double-counting suppliers that certify with more than one classification.
2 In the lat est update to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency GHG Emission Factors Hub, published in March, 2018 ( https://www.
epa.gov/sites/production/files/2018-03/documents/emission-factors_mar_2018_0.pdf), the CO2 factor increased by 39%, CH4 by 34%,  and N2O by 8% due to a methodology change.
3 Source: https://www.porttechnology.org/technical_papers/lng_as_a_ship_fuel_perspectives_and_challenges INNOVATION THAT EXPANDS ACCESS TO CARE 1 Source: https://www.kidney.org/kidneydisease/global-facts-about-kidney-disease SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES 1 Houses of w orship and political organizations are not eligible for the Foundation Matching Gift Program.
BAXTER DATA SUMMARY 1 “Ex ecutive” includes vice presidents and above.
“Management” includes directors and managers.
“Professional” includes individual  contributors.
“Technical/Clerical” includes employees in operational and administrative/clerical roles.
2 Americ as includes the United States (with Puerto Rico), Canada and Latin America.
3 Includes Americ an Indian/Alaska Native, Asian, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander  and two or more races.
4 The r egional breakdown of the data included in this section reflects the structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and  Sustainability (EHS&S) organization and the categorization of data in the EHS&S global information management system  through 2018.
5 W ork-related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first aid, including cases with days lost.
All rates based on 100 full- time employees working one year, which equals 200,000 work hours.
For tracking purposes, Baxter follows U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping requirements worldwide.
Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and conflicting medical opinions  arise as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, we record on the basis of the most authoritative  physician’s opinion.
For 2016 and 2017, rates exclude acquisitions until January 1 of the first year following at least 18 months with Baxter.
We include occupational diseases and illnesses, such as hearing loss and ergonomic disorders, within our broader categories of  cases, but do not track or report those items separately.
Due to privacy regulations in our Europe, Middle East and Africa region, we do  not classify or report injuries by gender.
Supervised contracted employees are included in the injury statistics reported below and are not tracked separately.
Independent contractors are not included in Baxter’s injury data, because they are supervised by other organizations.
6 W ork-related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident.
7 The number of da ys lost (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion due to work- related injuries or illnesses.
We do not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as lost days.
8 The number of da ys recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is unable to  work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work-related injury or illness.
We do not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as restricted days.
9 The r egional breakdown of the data included in this section reflects the structure of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability  (EHS&S) organization and the categorization of data in the EHS&S global information management system through 2018.
Some data for 2016 and 2017 are updated from data reported in the Baxter 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report, largely due to integration of data from  our Ahmedabad, India, facility (acquired through the Claris Injectables purchase in July 2017) into our 2015 baseline and subsequent  years.
Some totals vary from sum of items in category, due to rounding.
10 T otals reflect the removal of methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) as an air toxic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
EtO = ethylene oxide; DEHP = di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate.
BAXTER 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT49Product   Innovation2020   Priorities   and GoalsWorkplace   CultureEthics and   ComplianceResponsible  Procurement and  LogisticsInnovation That  Expands   Access to CareEmployee   Health   and SafetyOperationsServing Our  CommunitiesIntroduction APPENDIX:   Endnotes  (continued) BAXTER DATA SUMMARY  (CONTINUED ) 11 Includes air emis sions associated with on-site energy generation.
Emission factors from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  publication “Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors,” AP-42, Fifth Edition, Volume 1: “Stationary Point and Area Sources.”  12 Includes s tationary sources (Stationary Sources (facilities) Subtotal line item from Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions   table) and excludes energy consumption associated with Baxter-operated mobile sources.
13 Ba xter’s Lean Energy Program began in 2007.
Early in 2016, we introduced new Lean Energy Program requirements and updated  some existing ones to better align the program with ISO 50001 requirements for energy management.
14 This dat a differs slightly from the 2016 total stated in the Baxter Operations Total line of the Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and  GHG Emissions table, due to rounding.
15 Ex cludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations, since patients dispose of unused product rather than returning  it to Baxter for disposal.
Also excludes construction and demolition debris, remediation waste and wastewater treatment sludge.
Removing these waste categories from the company total allows for more consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends  over time.
In 2017, we reclassified a waste stream as wastewater, thereby excluding it from waste calculations.
16 Excludes production by-products reused on-site, construction and demolition debris and wastewater treatment sludge.
Includes  discarded/returned products (such as intravenous solution, dextrose solution, etc.) that are nonhazardous in nature but may be  classified as regulated in some countries.
Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations, since patients dispose  of unused product rather than returning it to Baxter for disposal.
17 Excludes waste recycled on-site, remediation waste, construction and demolition debris and wastewater treatment sludge.
Includes certain waste streams (such as waste oils, batteries, fluorescent lamps, light ballasts and asbestos) not classified as regulated in some  locations.
In 2017, we reclassified a waste stream as wastewater, thereby excluding it from waste calculations.
18 W ater usage from Baxter’s 60 sites with the greatest use, representing 95% of the company’s total annual water consumption.
Availability of renewable water supplies evaluated using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Global Water  Tool.
Extreme-scarcity areas have less than 500 cubic meters of renewable water resources per person per year.
Water-scarce  areas have at least 500 cubic meters but less than 1,000 cubic meters.
Water-stressed areas have at least 1,000 cubic meters but  less than 1,700 cubic meters.
Water-sufficient areas have at least 1,700 cubic meters but less than 4,000 cubic meters.
Water-abundant areas have greater than 4,000 cubic meters.
19 Es timated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways.
Data do not include two facilities  that operate zero-discharge systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements.
BOD5 refers to five-day biological oxygen  demand; COD refers to chemical oxygen demand; TSS refers to total suspended solids.
When actual performance data were not  available, estimates are based on performance at similar facilities or on other measured performance indicators.
20 Of the $79,500 in envir onmental fines Baxter paid in 2018, $75,000 was associated with three Notices of Violation received in 2016.
21 Fisc al year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).
22 United States and Puerto Rico.
Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).
Accounts payable data are  sent to a third party, which categorizes spending.
Other categories include disability-owned, service-disabled-veteran-owned,  LGBT-owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone-certified businesses.
HUBZone is a U.S. Small Business Administration program  for small companies that operate and employ people in Historically Underutilized Business Zones.
Spending with suppliers that qualify for more than one category may be included in the totals for each of the relevant categories.
23 Variations in Baxter’s annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and changes in product mix and marketing.
We identify opportunities  to donate and respond to community and humanitarian aid partner requests as appropriate.
This number may be different than the  value of Baxter products distributed during the year by our relief partners.
See  Innovation That Expands Access to Care .
24 Contributions to U.S.-based 501(c)(3) organizations for programs within and outside of the United States.
BAXTER VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS 1	Baxter used the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate emissions data from fossil fuel use.
We used country electricity emission factors published by the International Energy  Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) E-Grid U.S. regional electricity emission factors to calculate GHG  emissions related to electricity consumption.
2	Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.
verified to a reasonable level Baxter’s 2017–2018 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions.
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.
also verified to a limited level Baxter’s methodology for determining 2017–2018 Scope 3 GHG emissions.
BAXTER VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS  (CONTINUED ) 3	Estimated based on an environmentally extended input-output model from an independent third party and Baxter’s revenue   and sector of operation.
4	Estimated based on capital expenditures and an estimated emission factor per million dollars of capital expenditure from benchmarking with industry.
5	Estimated based on Baxter’s actual yearly energy usage by energy type and GHG emission factors for each energy type per GaBi life cycle assessment software.
6	Estimated by Baxter's independent transportation service provider based on shipment of products to our customers.
7	Estimated emissions for wastewater treatment by municipalities and off-site waste recycling and disposal based on Baxter’s waste generation by type, guidance provided by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (United States), and  the U.S. EPA WARM model.
8	Estimated based on domestic and international air mileage, rental vehicle mileage, and hotel room stays provided by Baxter’s  global travel providers, and using emission factors from UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting,  Greenhouse Gas Protocol Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions Calculation Tool, and Carbonfund.org Business Travel Calculator.
9	Estimated based on the number of Baxter employees by country and statistics on commuting time and transport mode split into  public transport, passenger cars, taxi and motorcycle, and walking or bicycling.
Emission factors for each mode were obtained  from Defra.
10	Emissions associated with upstream leased assets are included in Baxter’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
11	Some data for 2016 and 2017 are updated from data reported in the Baxter 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report, largely due to  integration of data from our Ahmedabad, India, facility (acquired through the Claris Injectables purchase in July 2017) into our  2015 baseline and subsequent years.
12	We used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition to determine GHG  emissions associated with using biomass fuel, principally wood/wood waste, as a boiler fuel at two Baxter locations.
These  emissions were calculated as 148,000, 146,000 and 145,000 metric tons CO2 in 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
CO2e emissions  from CH4 and N2O components of biomass combustion are included in reported Scope 1 emissions.
13	Includes the purchase of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable electricity (Belgium, Brazil, Czech Republic (except  2018), France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands (except 2018), Spain, Sweden, Switzerland (except 2018), United Kingdom  and United States), and the purchase of carbon credits from the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
14	Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions associated with reported fuel usage by company-managed  sales and distribution fleet vehicles and other vehicles.
We estimated fuel usage for international sales and distribution vehicles  based on regional sales information.
15	Refrigerant emissions represent reported CFC, HCFC and HFC refrigerant losses by each Baxter location.
We calculated  associated GHG emissions using actual emission factors for each reported refrigerant.
16	Estimated based on previous Baxter product LCAs as well as the company’s revenue by product type.
Category 1 emissions were extrapolated to other categories depending on the product type.
17	Estimated based on an environmentally extended input-output model from an independent third party and revenue from Baxter’s contract services business.
18	Estimated based on production quantities and global warming potential information for certain types of products.
Emissions for certain other products estimated based on previous Baxter product LCAs as well as the company’s revenue by product type.
Category 1 emissions were extrapolated to other categories depending on the product type.
19	Totals do not include CO2 emissions from Baxter-owned wood-fired boilers.
See endnote 12 above for detail.
BAXTER FACILITIES WITH ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 AND   GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS 1 As of Dec ember 31, 2018, unless stated otherwise.
2	The building with green certification noted is one of several buildings at the designated location.Baxter International Inc.
One Baxter Parkway   Deerfield, Illinois 60015-USA www.baxter.com © Baxter International Inc., 2019.
All rights reserved.
This report contains forward-looking statements concerning Baxter, including with respect to compliance, performance,  goals, plans and initiatives.
These statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including the  following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: product  development risks; continuity, availability and pricing of acceptable raw materials and component supply; risks related to cyber security or data leakage; failures with respect to compliance programs; accurate identification of and execution on R&D opportunities and realization of anticipated benefits; satisfaction of regulatory and other requirements; actions of  regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities; changes in laws and regulations; product quality, manufacturing or  supply issues; patient safety issues; and other risks identified in Baxter's most recent filing on Form 10-K and other SEC filings, all of which are available on Baxter's website.
Baxter does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
References in this report to Baxter are intended to refer collectively to Baxter International Inc.
and its U.S. and   international subsidiaries.Baxter, Amia, Baxter Renal Care Services, CWP 800, Dose IQ, Evo IQ, Kaguya, Mini-Bag, Mini-Bag Plus, Prismaflex,  PrisMax, Revaclear, Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real-World Science,  Sharesource, Spectrum IQ, Theranova   and Twin Bag are trademarks of Baxter International Inc., or its subsidiaries.
Any other trademarks, product names or brand images appearing herein are the property of their respective owners.Cover Photo:  By collaborating with international  partners, we work to increase   access to healthcare for those who  need it most—including these two  patients from Casa de la Amistad,   a residential pediatric cancer center  near Mexico City.
In partnership  with Direct Relief, we launched the Driving Your Health program, a  free community mobile medical initiative to serve patients with oncology treatment, diabetes screening and community education fairs.
Since its  inauguration in 2016, the cross-sectoral partnership has directly benefited  nearly 69,000 people through health services and indirectly benefited  562,000 individuals through medical consulting and educational resources.
